Subject: ipa v americanist symbol

i be at last draw to reply to the debate on ipa versus ' americanist ' tradition in phonetic transcription . i be , frankly , somewhat surprise by the tone of the original submission , suggest that the ipa 's refusal to use hachek / wedge symbol for palatoalveolar be an example of racism ( both anti - americanism and anti-slavicism , and no doubt anti - diacriticism ) . now we learn that the ipa itself be an anti-democratic conspiracy , and we need a new campaign lead by american organisation to make phonetic transcription 's afe for democracy , apple pie , and the american way ' ! ? a couple of point need to make in this regard , i think . first , it be not true that the ipa be not use in north america . what we have here be maybe not euro - centrism , but phonology / dialectology centrism ! clinical phonetician and speech pathologist in north american nearly alway use the ipa ( yes : long ess / zee , jod , and the cardinal vowel system , and all ! ) indeed , some department of linguistics / phonetics operate within the ipa tradition ( e . g . university of victorium bc ) . on the other hand , virtually all phonologist on this side of the atlantic use the so-cal americanist symbol . the divide , therefore , be not as have be portray . if phonologist tend to use one set of symbol , and phonetician another , be that really such a problem , as often they be concern with different level of description anyway ? even if phonetician cannot agree , be this also such a problem ? can raise the fear of racial discrimination and undemocratic conspiracy really be justify over relatively trivial distinction in symbol that anyone train in the area know about anyway ? the second point concern the debate on the symbol themselve . as i have just note , the difference between certain symbol be surely not a fundamentally important one ; but i would like to speak in defence of the ipa non-hachek version . leave aside the fact that these symbol do have a long history , i ( do ) feel that a unit symbol be preferably than a composite one . ( unlike the original post , it alway seem obvious to me that the hachek symbol be s / z etc plus a diacritic ) . grant that the ipa be not alway consistent on this point , a unitary symbol approach avoid confusion as to the nature of the s - s distinction . one may have to counter student ' feeling that [ s ] be really only a type of [ s ] which be reinforce by the spell ; it do n't help if the symbol look also like a 's ort of s ' . we may also look at the difference with [ j ] versus [ y ] for the palatal approximant . on the surface , this look fine , as the [ y ] spell be familiar ( but surely anglocentric , and not in line with slavic / germanic etc usage ? ) . however , this choice then leave us with a problem for a high front round vowel . if we can't use [ y ] then we must resort to [ u " ] . the diacritic [ " ] , however , be also commonly use in many tradition to stand for centralize . this transcription also suggest that [ u " ] be a variety of [ u ] , and that [ o " ] be a variety of [ o ] etc . the use of independent symbol leave open the relationship between lip-round and tongue position , which the 'd iaresis ' version do not . however phonetic transcription develop in the future , let 's avoid throw around accusation at other user or body . utopian scheme of universal orthodoxy in this area be surely unneccessary if not unsound . to be realistic , most ipa user ( wherever they ' re base ) be unlikely to surrender over a century 's worth of pattern of usage , and non - ipa user will be equally keen to keep to their symbolization . let 's learn to live with this , and spend instead time on refine transcription system ( e . g . for the transcription of atypical speech find in speech pathology clinic ) . perhap , vive la difference be the motto to aspire to ! martin j . ball university of ulster
