Subject: re : 6 . 199 ipa

it would be nice to have true democracy when try to reach agreement on how to use phonetic symbol , as stemburger have suggest . just as war be too important a matter to be leave to the general , so choose a standardize set of symbol should n't be leave to the phonetician . the international phonetic association have alway recognize this . it be fully conscious of the fact that ipa symbol be use by a wide variety of people . at the 1989 kiel convention , which be the first major revision for almost 50 year , there be a great deal of discussion about remember our ' customer ' , as one phonetician put it . and ( despite comment to the contrary by participant in this discussion ) the only change since then have be small change that affect comparatively few user of the alphabet , largely because of the belief that it be important for the alphabet to remain as stable as possible . if stemburger would like to organize some kind of referendum , good luck to him . i note that he suggest the lsa as the appropriate body for the u . s . , although he also mention ashla ( american speech hear and language association ) as an interest group that have officially adopt the ipa . their membership be much larger than the lsa . the asa ( acoustical society of america ) be another group that have many member interest in phonetic symbol . the1989 ipa kiel convention be open to all , and do include member of all the organization mention by stemburger , include lsa , ashla , asa , sil and other , none of the participant , of course , speak officially for any of these organization . the convention be also publicize in a paper in language , the only paper that morri halle and i have ever co-author . i really do not see how we can get more international collaboration . agree on symbol be as difficult as get everyone to use the same unit for measure weight and distance . in response to my previous suggestion that people interest in choice of phonetic symbol should join the international phonetic association , i have receive inquiry as to how to do this . there be a form in the journal of the international phonetic association ( which member receive - - and your university library + should + take ) . but really all you need to do be to send your name and address , plus a check for $ 25 or # 13 sterl ( or request to charge access / mastercharge / visa / eurocard ) for the annual dues to : secretariat , ipa linguistic and phonetic univeristy of leed leed , ls2 9jt , u . k . peter ladefoge
