Subject: sum : sign-singe

a few week ago i post the follow query : ) here in taiwan there be a tv program in which people compete ) to see who be the best singer . there be different category ) for different type of song / language , etc . , and one category ) be for " sign sing " . a tape of a song be play , and a signer ) sign along with the word of the song ( all those i ' ve see ) compete be not deaf ) . i be wonder if this be common in ) other country , and if so , what the criterion be for judge ) who be " the best " , and also if it be do at all by people ) who be deaf . thank . i receive a number of interest response : ) from jane edward ( edward @ cogscus . berkeley . edu ) : ) thought not pertain to contest or even sing , for that matter , ) i see something on pbs a couple month back which i want to mention . ) they show a " music appreciation " class teach to totally deaf high school ) kid , in which they each be wear pad on the back , which convert the ) acoustic output into pressure stimulation . the student be dance to ) the music , and comment on different type of music . they be n't ) sing / sign to it , but perhap they could ? ) from jakob dempsey ( jakob @ u . washington . edu ) : ) one of the largest , most popular chorus in seattle regularly ) have a sign-language " interpreter " on stage during performance ; the ) particular one who have be do it for a long time be not deaf ; he seem ) to also appeal a lot to the general audience with his expressive , exaggerate ) style . ) from midorus yonezawa ( yonezawa @ student . msu . edu ) : ) i believe that there be a sign sing contest because music can be share ) by everybody and it be natural to want to show different expression each ) other . ) i learn japanese sign language in japan ( a little bite ) , and sometime i ) practice sign sing , too . i go to concert where the singer be ) all professional " shanson " singer ( " shanson " be french loan into japanese ) . ) they have a concert every year for those who be handicap , not only ) for deaf people . some singer sing with sign language at the same time as ) they sing vocally , and when the singer do n't do so there be an interpreter ) of sign language on the stage . i notice and surprise that the way of ) express by sing language be very different from each other and from ) occasion , e . g . fast / slow , soft / press , emotional / calm , etc , etc . . ) i also remember a tv program ( on nhk ) about equipment to help those who have ) difficulty in hear . a technical group develop the equipment so that ) they can hear music . ) from peggy swartzel lott ( pslott @ utxvm . cc . utexa . edu ) : ) when i be a sign language interpreter and interpreter coordinator in ) san diego , californium , there be quite a to-do a few year back over ) the issue of song sign . i first remember encounter song sign in ) the early to mid 70 's when a few group of deaf performer ( i . e . ) musign ) tour the country perform popular song in sign along ) with record sound track . later a pair of excellent performer , ) sharon neumann solow and gary sanderson , both individual who be ) raise with deaf parent and fluent in asl , tour and perform ) song in sign . ) ) the controversy in san diego center on a local " annual song sign ) competition " host by the area 's rid branch , sanscrid . the ) competition be open to the public and be establish both for ) a general " deaf awareness " activity and to raise fund for various ) purpose . prize be give out for best individual song , best ) group , etc . the performance of the competition be quite popular ) and seem to be grow in attendance and participation each year . ) ) a group of deaf people contest the competition on various grounds . ) the point i remember best about their objection ( because i ) personally find these issue most compel ) be that the ) actual performance be offensive to some native signer because ) of the way put sign to music distort the linguistic and ) aesthetic dynamics of asl . that be , in order to make a sign ) narrative conform to the lyric of a song , to translate it ) simultaneously with the record music , many grammatical pattern ) in normal sign have to be alter . often the performance bear ) little resemblance to normal sign . ) ) there be great debate for a while in the community over this issue . ) certain deaf people and many hear interpreter and sign ) student defend the practice of song sign . some insist that ) they be allow to exercise their own artistic talent in play ) with sign in this way . other feel that song sign provide an ) important bridge that enable many uninform hear people to ) become aware of and appreciate the beauty of sign . the ) community be divide over the issue and eventuall y the whole ) thing be drop . in the meantime , however , certain concern ) of deaf people be bring to the surface and continue to be a ) source of discussion : issue about who have the right to make poetic ) use of sign and what sort of alteration in sign style be ) acceptable to native user and which be not . i find the whole ) debate quite interest and be genuinely convince by the ) argument of the deaf people who be oppose to the practice . ) from richard arnold ( richard . arnold @ vuw . ac . nz ) : ) here in new zealand we have an annual new zealand sign langauge story - tell ) competition . mostly the competitor be deaf , but some codas also partipate as ) well . i have yet to see any hear compete , however i know of some deaf for ) whom nz sign language be a second language learn later in their adult life ) also participate . ) ) the winner be usually those who be quite fluent in nzsl . the criterion for ) judge be ( to my understand ) as follow : ) ) - be the sign clear to the audience ? ) - do the signer get the audience attention ? ) - be the story well structure ? ) - be the story within the time limit set ( usually 3 minute ) ? ) - do the signer keep to the rule ? ) this usually consist of - no dirty joke . ) - no overzealous religious context . ) ) the competitior must give a title to his / her story and state its type , ( ie true ) story , joke story , sad story , not true story etc . . . ) ) ) if the story exceed the time limit a point be deduct . however the signer be ) not interrupt if he / she exceed the limit but be allow to complete the ) story ( unless it really be too long ! ! ! ) . ) ) sometime , at the end the winner ( if he / she be popular with the audience be ) ask to repeat it or give another story ) . ) ) . . . sign-singe be not too common among the deaf community far as i be ) aware . it be mostly do in religious situation . i think it be n't a strong ) component of deaf culture . however story-tel be a strong part of deaf ) culture and especially of make joke and light-heart tease . anyway that ) my deaf experience here in new zealand . ) from karina bingham ( karina @ uhunix . uhcc . hawaius . edu ) : ) there be an african - american a cappellum group call " sweet honey in the ) rock " who have a full-time signer in the group . she perform with them and ) sign her interpretation of the song . they recently publish a book ) for their 25th anniversary : ) ) reagon , bernice johnson . the long journey home . 1994 . ) ) in which the signer discuss her experience in the deaf community and ) a deaf church ( where the congregation sing in sign ) . her parent be both ) deaf ; she be not . ) from marina mcintire ( mmcintir @ lynx . dac . neu . edu ) : ) you have inadvertently touch upon a very tender issue in the deaf ) community here in the us . first , let me say that only in the us have i ) see this phenomenon . brit ( both deaf and hear who work with them ) ) be confound and amuse by it . in the us , it use to be quite the ) thing to translate song and develop routine to go with them , produce ) recital and concert , and the like . it arise , most likely , out of a ) strong church-relate tradition of " helper " for deaf people . ) ) in the last ten to fifteen year , however , deaf people have begin their ) own liberation . song - sign have be a casualty , by and large . it be ) view as represent one aspect of a pathological or clinical view of ) deafness , i . e . , that the worst " loss " result from deafness be music . ) this be , of course , far from the truth . and for culturally deaf people , ) music be a peculiarity belong to the mainstream hear world and of ) no consequence in their life whatsoever . so * that * motive ( help ) d / deaf people appreciate what they ' re miss ) be not acceptable . ) ) another complaint be that , by and large , translation be more ) influence by the rhythm of the music than by any sense it may make in ) asl , present d / deaf audience with nonsensical or distort version ) of sign and sign syntax . this arise partly , of course , out of the ) difficulty of translate any poetry into any language . ) ) worst of all , and perhap most puzzle to d / deaf people , be the ) insistence of most song-signer on include thing like " tra la la " or ) hum . there be * nothing * that could make less sense to a d / deaf ) audience ! ) ) i will say that i have see some wonderful song-sign translation do , ) include some with rather elegant dance routine . sometime these have ) be do by d / deaf people and sometime by hear folks . by and large , ) however , this practice be no longer an acceptable pasttime in our ) community . exception be make , ironically , for interpreter who work in ) theater . musical production , because of their general inclusion of ) dance ( a more interest visual event ) and costume / prop / etc . . . be ) quite popular and well-attend ( comparatively speak ) by d / deaf ) theatre-goer . many thanks to all those who reply . randy lapollum institute of history and philology academium sinica
