Subject: reference example number in wp

since the question have be raise about how to reference example number in wordperfect for dos , here 's my two-cent ' worth about wp5 . 1 and wp6 for dos . in 5 . 1 , although one could use paragraph number , as be suggest , this preclude use them to number section of a paper . a better approach be to use the number facility for " graphic box . " like paragraph number , graphic box can be reference by the cross-reference feature in wp . what you have to do be set equation box option so that the caption be to the leave of the box ( the default be to the right ) . for phonological rule , which can be nicely format use the equation editor , you then create an equation box with a caption consist of " ( [ box number ] ) " and go into the equation editor to write the rule . for sample sentence , etc . , the box itself be empty , but with a caption as before , and set to allow text to overlap it . you can then exit the create graphic box screen and proceed to type the example . the number automatically update as new box be add . cross - reference be do by assign name to any example you want to reference ( as a cross-reference target ) and then put in a cross-reference reference code with the target 's name . you have to generate occasionally to update the reference number ; they initially appear as ? . in wp6 ( which be superior for linguistics because of its support for phonetic symbol ) it 's even easier . wp6 have a counter feature ( in the character format dialog box ) . you define a counter ( i call mine example ) . whenever you want to insert an example , you type ( in the main document screen ) the open parenthesis , go into the counter dialog box , and push f8 ( or click on the increment and display button ) . this insert two code : one to increment the number ( this be not do automatically for user-define counter ) and one to display it . cross - reference be do as before . a couple of additional wp tip : - the style feature be very useful for deal with in-text stylesheet for journal . for any feature where journal have different style ( scare quote , sentence gloss and translation , in-text reference punctuation , etc . ) you assign a style . style can be any combination of character and code . for each journal , you create a different style library . then , if you want to change format from one to another , you simply read in a different style library . - the above be too simple for bibliography style sheet , where the order of element differ in addition to punctuation and font attribute . if you be comfortable with program , you can write merge program ( call primary merge file in wp5 . 1 and merge form file in wp6 ) for the different stylesheet and have a bibliography file which be format as a secondary merge file ( wp5 . 1 ) / merge datum file ( wp6 ) , with field for thing like author 's first and last name , year , title , etc . ( include a field for type of reference ( book , article , dissertation , etc . ) since the format of the title may vary . ) this be not recommend for computerphobe , however . - line up foreign language example with word-for - word gloss in proportional font can be do use tab , and reset the tab stop for each example . this be easier from wp6 . 0b onward ( if you have a mouse ) because of the ruler feature : you display the ruler and drag the tab stop , and as you drag them a dot line extend down from the tab stop through the text so you can see exactly where you be . in previous version , you have to go into the tab set menu and play with the tab setting by trial and error . it be even possible to put asterisk inside the space of the tab between the example number and the example . instead of tab , use the tab align ( wp5 . 1 ) or decimal align ( wp6 ) feature ( ctrl f6 ) . before press ctrl - f6 , set the " decimal character " to the first letter of the example ( on the other format menu in 5 . 1 and the character format menu in 6 ) . to prevent the spell-checker from stop on word in foreign example ( or phonetic representation , or logical formula ) , in 5 . 1 you can use the language feature to insert a made-up language code . the spell-checker will complain that it can't find the dictionary for the language , and you tell it to ignore the language and continue check what it can . in wp6 a block can be mark [ speller / grammatik off ] ( on the other format menu ) to prevent it from be spell - or grammar-check . - - yehuda n . falk department of english the hebrew university of jerusalem " live long and prosper " - vulcan greet
