Subject: dependency grammar : correction , reaction , reformat

apparently i make a few mistake in the post about my manuscript on dependency grammar . this be curious , because i apparently get everything right on the earlier post on the same topic to the dg and hpsg list . at least two people have inform me that they successfully ftp-e everything , but at least two other have have problem . the address should be : julius . ling . ohio-state . edu the suffix . p . gz on the file-name ( not the address ) indicate that they be compress , so you need to uncompress them use the command ' gunzip ' . the slash in the directory address should be ' / ' and not ' \ ' . presumably because of some sort of software error , i cannot read thing in my inbox . but i put three of the reaction to my previous post there before i have grow accustom to this problem , so i cannot answer these directly , but will now try to do so through the linguist list . to the respondent from finland : you want a numerical address . it be : 128 . 146 . 172 . 200 to the respondent from taiwan ( or be it hongkong ? ) . you note a problem with chapter 7 . the general problem have now be correct , but there may still be a problem with one or two of the example . if so , i can send an ascii file , as you suggest , or a paper copy of these example , if you send me a regular mail address , but in either case you have to write to me again . i be now use to read my mail and reply if necessary , or at least write down the essential information , before download . nevertheless , i hope the compuserve people solve the problem soon . to the " computer illiterate / dyslexic " ( your own term ) : surely you can find someone there who be able to help you with the ftp procedure . the university you be at must have more than its share of expert in this area . but i can also send you an ascii version of chapter 1 vium email , if you write to me again . for the sake of make my file more compatible with the software linguist most often use , andrea kathol have advise me to reformat my manuscript in latex . unfortunately , he do n't know where to get a latex software packet for use with pcs ( what i use ) . can anyone help by give me a site to ftp from ? i be in the process of create a latex version of the file . dan maxwell 100101 , 2276 @ compuserve . com
