Subject: conference announcement

content - length : 7567 2nd international conference on communication in the workplace local diversity , global connection : communication , culture and business the national language and literacy institute of australium 's centre for workplace communication and culture at the university of technology , sydney and jame cook university of north queensland , together with the national centre for english language teach and research at macquarie university plan to present the second international conference on communication in the workplace at the wesley centre , sydney on november 8-11 , 1995 . the focus of the conference be local diversity , global connection : communication , culture and business . the conference will be divide into three interconnect theme , one theme on each of the three day . participant will be able to explore area of special interest within and across each theme . also feature be case study include adi marine , infolex pty ltd , optus , selley , uncle toby 's company ltd . below be an outline of the theme . day 1 globalisation and productive diversity globalisation : what be the new frontier ? cross border and remove boundary in the current global environment . develop cross-cultural communication skill for global corporate citizen . international business culture : how do different national style influence organisation ? negotiate new way of do business and manage human resource . total quality management and benchmark : what do we mean by quality ? or how can the notion of quality and standard allow for difference ? balance different interpretation of quality with the need to conform to international / australian standard . putt diversity to work : what be the benefit ? tapp into the diverse skill of employee . recognise the depths and breadth of employee ' language skill , experience , cultural style and way of think . the language of export : how do we market the new global growth industry ? export service ( education , language , tourism , information , art , etc . ) to the asian pacific region and beyond . day 2 learn organisation - negotiate workplace culture corporate culture : how do you link personal value with corporate mission ? creat corporate culture which allow and value difference . work in team : which team work and under what circumstance ? recognise different type of team ; value different skill and strategy . national competency and multiskil : how do you recognise , compare and complement different skill and experience ? link education , work and community . learn and demonstrate competence in new and flexible way . creat learn environment : under what condition do learn thrive ? respond to community and individual need in flexible way . enterprise bargain : how do you cater for difference ? learn to develop new workplace relationship . day 3 communicate and manage change communicate corporate information : what be the implication for employee participation ? develop efficient and effective communication system . work with formal and informal mode of communication . informal and interpersonal communication : how do the way we speak and write influence work relationship and relationship with client ? relate effectively to people . work together : how can we gain access to the language and cultural skill of a multicultural workforce ? recognise and utilise the language skill of the workforce . ( language other than english , specialist language , community communication network . ) the language of market : how do we meet the need of a diverse clientele ? speak the customer 's language , niche market , network and build customer relation . interactive multi-medium and new information technology : what be the implication for the way we work , learn and communicate ? manage new communication media as form of language and cultural interaction . alternative format , maximise participation one of the objective of the second international conference on communication and culture in the workplace be to encourage greater participation than usually occur at conference . to make this possible , the conference have a number of new presentation format , as well as the more conventional format . - plenary presentation ( 30 min ) where invite key expert introduce the conference theme and state-of - the-art approach . - plenary multilogue ( 90 min ) where an expert panel debate an issue and then open the discussion to the audience . - small group multilogue ( 45 min ) where you introduce a controversial proposition relate to the conference theme / panel debate and open it up for further discussion in a small group . - reflection on practice ( 45 min ) where manager , trainer , worker , trainee , teacher , administrator , community educator ' walk through ' their experience , their practice , their community involvement , their learning-on - the-job . - engagement with practice ( 90 min ) where presenter actively engage their audience in activity or experience derive from their work and interest : management process , train activity , plan process , client relation or market , evaluation . - workshop - in - partnership ( 90 min ) where people present in partnership . partner may include : trainer , researcher , manager , administrator , business people , member of the community . workshop require active engagement of the audience in a learn experience . - paper presentation - in - partnership ( 45 min ) a shorter version of the workshop - in - partnership , but with more of a 's how and tell ' approach , allow 15 min for audience question . - workshop ( 90 min ) where you lead a group through a series of experience / activity which illustrate an idea or a practice . - paper ( 45 min ) where you present from a prepare paper to a group about your experience or your research , leave about 15 minute for question and discussion . session will be tap , and tape available for sale . written papers , background information on session , overhead transparency etc . will be lodge with the conference secretariat and available for sale in photocopy form . the conference be expect to attract about 500 local and international participant include employer , union , academic , industry trainer and language teacher . it will provide an opportunity for people to engage in a dialogue about the latest idea on organisational change , communication and culture . for further information contact the nllia centre for workplace communication and culture , university of technology , sydney . po box 123 , broadway , new south wale , 2007 , australium . tel : + 61 2 330 3926 . email : d . brosnan @ mailbox . ut . edu . au
