Subject: sum : verbal / pronominal feature difference

earlier this month i post the follow query : = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = what language ( if any ) do people know about , where there be distinction carry in the verbal morphology which cannot be indicate in the pronominal system ? ( for example , if a language express gender difference in the verb , but not in pronoun ) . = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = the follow people very kindly reply with various piece of very useful information : antton elosegus aldasoro ( fvpelalum @ sd . ehu . e ) ariel mira ( mariel @ ccsg . tau . ac . il ) " ellen l . continus - morava " ( elc9j @ faraday . cla . virginium . edu ) simon corston ( corston @ humanita . ucsb . edu ) brian d joseph ( bjoseph @ magnus . ac . ohio-state . edu ) june wickboldt : jwickbol @ uc . indiana . edu here be the reply : the two most promise example of what i be ask about come from basque and hebrew , where the pronominal and verbal system do not match for gender : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - antton elosegus aldasoro ( fvpelalum @ sd . ehu . e ) in basque there be not gender at all in noun or pronoun , but some verbal form carry the distinction of the gender of the 2nd person nik ekarrus diat nik ekarrus dinat i ( erg ) give it to you-masc i ( erg ) give it to you-fem antton elosegus ( university of the basque country ) ariel mira ( mariel @ ccsg . tau . ac . il ) in my own hebrew " normal " verbal inflection ( past and future ) distinguish person gender and number in 2nd and 3rd person , but only number in 1st person . so far so good , because so do the free pronominal system . however , our now present tense be morphologically a nominal form ( for eg . holexet = ' walk ( fem ) ' as well as ' walker ( fem ) ' . now , our nominal form , have nothing to do with pronominal form inflect for number and gender , but do not distinguish person . the result be that now 1st person present inflection distinguish between fem and masc though the independent pronoun do not . modern hebrew be lose some gender distinction too ! 1 . future tense 3rd per plural : fem form be hardly ever use . even the purist language academy have " abolish " the form . ( we do n't seem to ever have have it in past tense ) . 2 . in colloquial speech , the same be happen to 2nd person , no doubt because the 2nd and 3rd person plural fem form be identical ( though not the masc one they have converge with ) . 3 . this need to be check ! the free plural feminine pronoun , as well as past inflection of same seem to me to be shake . but real datum have to be record for this , so do n't make much of this . i wonder whether mix form be possible , namely , you-fem go + masc , etc . * and on a more theoretical note * : hopefully you will find very few example for what you be look , because i believe ( what other have be say for about a hundr year ) that inflection tend to develop out of free pronoun . hence , the dependence between the meaning encode , though there be no principle reason for the inflection to change later , i guess . it be really unlikely , though , because once the form be inflect , fuse with the verb , chance be it win develop its separate semantics . if you ' re interest in theory about the development of inflection out of pronoun , i have my own , which account for the well-known fact that inflection for 1st and 2nd person be much more prevalent than 3rd person . i claim this be so not because 3rd person be unmark , but rather , since referent of 3rd person be usually much less accessible than referent of 1st and 2nd person ( the speaker and the addressee ) . minimal form be reserve for more accessible referent ( in general ) , hence inflection be the natural development out of free pronoun for highly accessible antecedent . you can have a look at my book ' access np antecedent ' , routledge , 1990 , chapter 6 . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - the follow two respondent quote case where logophoric and obviative mark occur attach to the verb rather than to the pronoun to which they refer . to me , it seem that these particle be not inflection as such , though i be not sure exactly how i would classify them . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - june wickboldt : jwickbol @ uc . indiana . edu some language have logophoric reference mark the reference with verbal affix , not pronoun or pronominal . two be newarus , see karen ebert . 1986 . report speech in some language of nepal . in f . coulma ( ed . ) direct and indirect speech , berlin : mouton de gruyter , and gokana , see hyman , larry m . and bernard comrie . 1981 . logophoric reference in gokana . journal of african language and linguistic . 3 : 19-37 . brian d joseph ( bjoseph @ magnus . ac . ohio-state . edu ) the algonquian language cree , speak in canada , have a category know in the literature as " obviative " , which provide a way of distinguish between different third-person in a discourse ( the first one mention be " proximate " , and the next one mention be " obviative " , so cree can distinguish unambiguously between " john meet bill as he be walk down the street " where rhe " in english can refer to either john or bill - - in cree it would be unambiguously one or the other ) . for the most part , and this be where it be relevant to you , this mark show up on the verb ( thus the verb form in the above sentence would be different if it be john walk or bill walk ) ; noun can show obviative / proximate mark ( though one class , the so-cal " inanimate " noun do not ) , and there be proximate and obviative form of demonstrative pronoun , but not of the personal pronoun . thus " wus : ya " be ' he / proximate ' as well as ' he / obviative ' . pronoun be not usually express in cree , but if you just look at the personal pronoun , then cree would be a language of the sort you be look for . for that matter , these fact be similar in virtually all the algonquian language , so it be n't just cree . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - finally , two respondent note that independent pronoun be not necessarily mark for case in the same way as pronominal affix . such phenomenon do not seem rare to me ( e . g . arabic do the same ) . i be assume then that such case be not mark . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - " ellen l . continus - morava " ( elc9j @ faraday . cla . virginium . edu ) in swahilus part of the verb morphology be subject and object prefix , that signal info . about participant role with respect to the action of the verb . this distinction be not make among independent pronoun , which distinguish only person and number . but since the subject and object prefix in swahilus be often call " pronominal " , i do n't know if this count as a distinction that can't be make by pronoun . simon corston ( corston @ humanita . ucsb . edu ) in my ma , in press in the pacific linguistic sery from anu , i discuss ' ergativity in roviana ' . roviana have special pronominal form use for absolutive ( s ( 's ubject of intr ' ) or o ( ' object ' ) ) , and different form for a ( 's ubject of tr ' ) . the pronoun make distinction in person , number , and incl / ecl for 1pl . there be pronominal verbal affix on the verb which be alway only o . i . e . wherea the independent pron do n't distinguish s / o , the pronominal affix do . somewhere around here i have a brief sketch of roviana which i have be send to people . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - i find everything very interest , and be happy to receive any more info on my query above . thank again to those who respond ! maik gibson university of read
