Subject: interim summary : anthropoid linguistic ability

in linguist 5-1467 ( 18 dec . 1994 ) , i post the follow query : ) dougla h . chadwick , in his review of kanzus : the ape at the brink of the ) human mind , by sue savage - rumbaugh and roger lewin ( nytime book review , ) dec . 11 , 1994 , pp . 15-19 ) , say , ) ) ) . . . this go a long way toward counter the complaint that language - ) ) use ape be merely respond to cue from researcher or , at best , ) ) learn rote behavior to get reward without really comprehend the ) ) mean of the word they employ . . . . part of the problem be that the ) ) author be play by rule lay down by their critic . it be rene ) ) descart . . . who fashion the longstand paradigm of animal as ) ) automaton [ sic ] , incapable of do anything other than mindlessly ) ) respond to whatever force impinge on them . descart insist that ) ) animal cannot even feel real pain or pleasure , much less understand or ) ) remember the experience . . . . in our era , this tradition have be carry ) ) on by linguistics expert equally intent on preserve language and rea - ) ) son for the exclusive use of human . each time an ape demonstrate eus - ) ) ther ability , the linguist set about redefine language and reason in ) ) more complex and confuse way , erect yet more artificial barrier ) ) for primate to hurdle . ) ) excuse me , be this something i ' ve miss in my seven year of grad school ) and subsequent four year of professional activity in linguistics ? are ) we deliberately engage in a dastardly plot to deny our anthropoid cou - ) sin their birthright ? psycholinguistic have never be one of my forte , ) but i certainly do n't remember anything in the introductory survey cour - ) se i ' ve take myself or develop to teach to other anything so much as ) hint that it be an a priorus assumption of the field of linguistics ) that language be the exclusive prerogative of homo sapien , only that ) it 's an important part of the package that define that species . ) ) i remember enthusiastically inflate claim make back in the 50 's about ) the forseeable progress in computer technology - - prediction as to how ) quickly we would get computer that could not only converse with us in ) real time in some give human language ( default : english ) but whop any ) human be in chess as well . as all ai researcher know , it soon become ) clear that these prediction be base in part on an oversimplify ) notion of what constitute language ( if i remember correctly , some ) premise be on the level of edgar rice - burrough ' endow his hero ) with a 's pectacular ability to master alien language ' that consist of ) an ability to memorize a dictionary ) . and i understand that many claim ) about ' ape language ' , and the rebuttal from the community of linguist , ) have be at similar level . but it seem to me that this be quite ) different from the scenario in which the academic linguist , threaten by ) the physical anthropologist , mutter , ' hmm ; so far we ' ve feel safe with ) this definition of linguistic competence , but this chimp have master ) that . we ' ll have to change the definition if we want to avoid miscege - ) nation ! ' , which be apparently what chadwick be envision . ) ) now , i daresay there may be individual linguist who do react this way , ) just as in previous era there be scientist who would from time to ) time redefine the standard of what constitute full humanity . or civus - ) lization , or what have you , to maintain the claim that whatever it be , ) the native people of africa and the western hemisphere do n't have it . ) but i certainly do n't , and i ' m not aware of any of my colleague that ) do insist , as the sectional headline in the nyt book review have it , ' on ) keep language and reason for human alone ' ( i ' m also a little be - ) muse at this conflation of language and reason ; language have never ) strike me as an entirely ' rational ' process ) , much less that , as chadwick ) and , by derivation , say headline imply , that as a professional class we ) be unanimous in do so . ) ) i ' m consider write a letter to the editor to complain about this ; if ) anybody else have already do so , please let me know . but what i really ) want to know be , what be the current general consensus ( if there be one ) of ) the field on this subject ? are the claim in the savage - rumbaugh & lewin ) book anent kanzus 's linguistic ability valid ? or be some further clarus - ) fication in order ? is it just that some researcher in this area have ) a ( perhap understandable ) chip on their shoulder ? or be there a real ) conflict between theoretical linguist on the one hand and physical an - ) thropologist and primatologist on the other on this subject ? first of all , david pesetsky do write a letter to the new york time , which be publish in the dec . 25 issue of the time book review , and i refer all interest party to it ( for some reason , i can't find my copy at the moment ) . secondly , i 'd like to thank the follow scholar who get in touch with me over the holiday to discuss this issue , discussion to be summarize below : john h . chalmer ( non12 @ cyber . net ) dick hudson ( uclrah @ ucl . ac . uk ) massimo piattellus - palmarinus ( piattem @ dipsco . hsr . it ) tom j . pulju ( pulju @ ricevm1 . rice . edu ) harold schiffman ( haroldf @ u . washington . edu ) discussion proceed along two logically distinct question : ( 1 ) what be currently the most accurate assessment of the ' linguistic performance ' , ( and , by inference , linguistic ability ) of the anthropoid ? ( 2 ) why be such people as the gardner , savage - rumbaugh , chadwick , etc . so irritate at us ? on the first question , all of my respondent , as well as david pesetsky , seem to be agree that the most impressive ' linguistic ' performance of chimp and gorilla report in the literature be at a level roughly equus - valent to that of a human child of approximately two year of age , but that the anthropoid seem to be unable to develop beyond that stage . in particular , they show no evidence for syntactic structure , nor for any ability to distance themselve temporally or spatially from the referent of their statement . i receive statement such as the follow : ' the most successful of the ape have manage to reach more or less the level of child in the two-word utterance stage . the size of the lexus - con be about the same , as be the combinatory ability . ' ' the ape master a refine system of communication , and be capable of some abstract think , but lack the very fundamental of human language ( recursiveness , structure-dependency , parse into constituent , etc . ) . ' ' the chimp mostly have a lexicon , and a rudimentary syntax that let them distinguish between actor and patient , but that 's about all . . . . the chimp ( a ) have no morphology to speak of ( b ) can't use displacement of the message ( i . e . , can't talk about the past or future , or something that happen / ed in another location ) ' [ at a venture , i would guess that they can't handle contrafactual either . ] ' it be claim that the ape " utterance " lack grammaticality or syntax . the ape can make the correct symbolic association , but have no sense of grammatical pattern . in two and three " word " sentence , the order of the element be variable and each element maybe repeat any number of time in any order and independently of the rest ( sequence like give banana give kanzus kanzus banana kanzus give , etc . ) ' one of my respondent , partly on the basis of hann own occasionally frus - trate experience result from the geographical proximity of an instus - tution presumably devote to the 's tudy ' of anthropoid language , make some critical statement about the scientific methodology of some of this research . in particular , after refer to hockett 's 16 'd esign fea - ture ' of language , hann remark : ' the proponent ' claim that [ chimp ] do have cultural transmission , because washo teach her son , do n't bear up under much scrutiny ; washo have to be reward to learn every sign and her son have not learn as many , nor pass them on to any other chimp . i see what the chimp learn as the equivalent of a pidgin ; but creoliza - tion never take place . ' which imply ( 1 ) that anthropoid ' language ' ac - tually correspond to the skinnerian model refute by chomsky in his fa - mous review as regards human language and ( 2 ) that it be not sufficiently ' natural ' to the anthropoid for them to feel motivate to transmit it successfully . some of my respondent address some of the wider theoretical and metho - dological issue relevant to linguistics implicit in this discussion . one opine ' that some dismissal of ape language research be partly , and unconsciously , motivate by a turf-protection instinct . we ' re all alrea - dy uneasy about the fact that there be certain subfield of linguistics whose importance we acknowledge but which we ' re not personally terribly well-verse in . . . . i think many theoretical linguist breathe a sigh of relief when terrace announce that [ the chimp ] nim have n't really learn human language at all . it mean that they do n't have to worry about mo - dify their theory to fit ape language datum . ' another say , ' most linguist do n't really care ( at least not consciously ) about whether ape can learn language as such , but they do care deeply about whether lan - guage be " suus generi " and innate or not . . . . as far as linguist be concern , we ' re divide over chomsky 's claim that language be a genetus - cally-program module , rather than an area of knowledge which be han - dled by general cognition . if ape can't learn language at all , that support the chomskyan view ( which presumably involve some cataclysmic mutation say 100 , 0 year ago , or at least since we split off from the other primate ) . if they can learn some of it , we have evidence for ge - neral cognition ( where ape be presumably less well endow than us , so you 'd expect partial success ) . ' in further discussion we agree that this argument only hold if we accept a 's trong ' version of the relevant dichotomy implicit in the innateness hypothesis , accord to which human linguistic ability be overwhelmingly if not completely independent of general human cognition . i point out that even if chimp be demonstrably distinct from us on a genetic level they still share over 98 % of our dna . so even if they share some of our linguistic ability it may mean that they also share some of the distinc - tive genetic endowment that provide it . a more effective test would be on cetacean or pachyderm , which be nowhere as nearly relate to us as chimp be but which appear to have roughly comparable cognitive level . if they also share a certain amount of our linguistic ability , that would indicate that at least that amount be probably dependent more on general cognitive ability than on any specific genetic endowment . if chimp , dolphin , elephant , whatever , can't master human language but have other mode of communication * not isomorphic * with ours but of * comparable com - plexity and flexibility * , then this would give us the opportunity to stu - dy how much of human language be necessary to the general phenomenon of language and how much be incidental and of relevance only to our species ; it may also enable us to talk about the ' innateness ' of human linguistic ability in term that would not be offput to geneticist . on the second question , the basis for the irritation toward academic lin - guist on the part of the proponent of anthropoid language , there be some consensus that they be work with an overly simplistic concep - tion of what constitute language , and be offend that we refuse to share it . typical be the follow remark : ' all the [ proponent ] of animal language , and of its continuity with hu - man language , assume that human natural language simply * be * the result of communication and use . . . . the basic design of human language be * not * dictate by use , and we can easily conceive of species that would possess a * radically * different design for language and would communicate just as well , if not better . ' ' the gardner et al . have an extremely elementary grasp of what be real language . they think that if they have a lexicon and bare syntax , that 's all there be . their other argument , that the ape have " real " sign lan - guage , be also pitiful . . . . the approach trivialize both oral language and sign language . ' there be , however , some acknowledgment that some of the ' blame ' for this state of affair belong on our doorstep . the ' trivialization ' just man - tion be claim to be due at least in part to inadequacy in state - ment by linguist in the 50 's and 60 's . one respondent in particular point to an inveterate tendency to try to identify a single , define , characteristic as the sine qua non of human linguistic ability , rather than accept the fact that such important distinction be often proper - ly make on the basis of mosaic of characteristic . in particular , much research in anthropoid ' language ' have apparently focus on the ability of chimp and gorilla to coin novel expression , unanticipate by their human teacher / handler , on the basis of a finite number of memorize ' lexeme ' and some basic combinatorial principle . this effort have suppo - sedly be motivate by early assertion by academic linguist that what distinguish human language from all other form of animal communication be its creative ability . when the gardner , etc . , demonstrate that their ape be capable of similar creativity and we then say , ' very nice but that 's not language ' , they be understandably miff . in response to this , i think what be necessary be greater tact , humility , and honesty on all our part . we need to admit up front that we ( or our predecessor ) have oversimplify in the past , and give credit to the ape researcher for help to elucidate the issue . and we need to make it clear that what chimp , gorilla , and two-year - old human share be in some sense a * rudimentary * linguistic ability , but not equivalent to what adult human do . in short , we need to increase everybody 's awareness of the inherent rich - ness and complexity of human linguistic behaviour , which to my mind means we need to devote more time and energy to introductory course in general linguistics ! harold schiffman report some encourage success in this direction with a course on linguistic anthropology at the university of washington . further discussion on the issue raise here be welcome , either in perso - nal communication with me or in general discussion on the list . i hope in the not too distant to be able to post a short list of reference to publish literature on this subject . best , steven - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - dr . steven schaufele 712 west washington urbana , il 61801 217-344 - 8240 fcosw @ prairienet . org * * * * o syntagma linguarum libereminus humanarum ! * * * * * * nihil vestri privarus nisus obicibus potesti ! * * *
