Subject: asl dictionary on cd-rom

my recent query concern the new american sign language ( asl ) dictionary on cd-rom generate a substantial response , both from this list and from slling - l . i have summarize the main point of these response below . please bear in mind that i have not see the product in question . the dictionary review on pbs be the american sign language dictionary on cd-rom by martin sternberg and be distribute by harpercollin . the follow be the positive point that recur in people 's message : - - it be at the moment the only publish asl dictionary that include motion video of asl sign , which serve to disambiguate unclarity in print representation . the follow be the negative point that recur in people 's message : - - the dictionary be base too heavily on english , be essentially an english - to - asl dictionary . this both make it hard ( at time , impossible ) to get an idea of the internal structure of the asl lexicon , and make it less useful to native signer . ( there be , however , some categorization into semantic group . ) there be also more specific problem arise from the failure to make asl distinction that be not make overtly in english ( e . g . english " lecture " be use as a headword , while the asl equivalent be specifically a verb , not a noun ; classifier be almost completely omit ) . - - the dictionary be base on sternberg 's book-form dictionary of the early 1980 , and fail to take account of recent development in the study of asl . - - there may be technical quality concern , but since i have n't see the product i ' m not in a position to judge . it seem to work better on more modern machine , and the mac version seem to work better than the window version . alternative : the follow other cd-rom asl dictionary project be draw to my attention : - - multemedium dictionary of asl ( mm-dasl ) , release plan for summer of 1995 . this dictionary be base generally on the work of william stokoe ( who be involve in the project ) . it allow direct lookup of asl sign , incorporate recent linguistic work on asl , and be assist by a panel of native asl user . for detail , please contact sherman wilcox , university of new mexico ( wilcox @ mail . unm . edu ) . - - asl dictionary on cd-rom develop by denni cokely at linstok press , 4020 blackburn lane , burtonsville , md 20866 , and alpha and beta test by ken rust at madonna university , who should be contact for further detail ( rust @ smpt . munet . edu ) . thank to : jacqueline anderson , nancy frishberg , marian macchus , mark a . mandell , joyce mcdonough , chri miller , karen mistry , becky moreton , cindy neuroth - gimbrone , steve seegmiller , mark seidenberg , barbara sensiba , dan slobin , leslie h . stenn , sherman wilcox , and the author of the many message that be forward to me from slling - l . - - bernard comrie dept of linguistic gfs-301 tel + 1 213 740 2986 university of southern californium fax + 1 213 740 9306 lo angele , ca 90089-1693 , usa e-mail comrie @ bcf . usc . edu
