Subject: summary : " grasshopper mind "

short answer : " grasshopper mind " be british english , not japanese - english . summary answer : thank to those linguist reader who respond to my query ( 5 . 1431 , 94 / 12 / 11 ) about " grasshopper mind , " an expression that be enter into kenkyusha 's japanese - english and english - japanese dictionary ( 1974 , 1980 ) and roget 's thesaurus ( 1982 ) , but apparently not find in any monolingual english dictionary . the respondent , in alphabetical order , be : deborah milam berkley , marie egin , ted hard , steven schaufele , steve seegmiller , todd siel , and stephen p . spackman . the inquiry ask four question : ) do other english language reference work enter " the grasshopper mind " ? ) is it a varietal or dialectal term ? when be it first record ? are ) there analogous " grasshoppery " word in other language ? ( 1 ) look up " grasshopper mind " in english dictionary be a lexicographical dead end . i ' ve check dozen - - include old and new , standard and slang , uk and us , - - and not one enter it . some larger dictionary record a derogatory sense of _ grasshopper _ ; e . g . , the new shorter oxford english dictionary ( 1993 ) : " 2 . _ fig . _ a person hold to resemble a grasshopper in character or behaviour ; an inconstant , flighty , or frivolous person . l16 . " and the near-synonym " grasshopper brain " be webster 's third new international dictionary ( 1971 ) usage example for _ grasshopper _ mean 3 . 2 " light and frivolous : untouch by care for the future . " ( 2 ) hard definitively answer the second question : ) " grasshopper mind " be well-known standard uk english usage . to say ) someone " have a grasshopper mind " means that their focus of attention ) jump unpredictably from subject to random subject . none of the other respondent , include three widely-disperse speaker of american english ( berkley , egin , seegmiller ) , have see or hear this collocation , but all agree they could readily understand what it means . in term of _ grasshopper _ mean ' frivolous , careless , ' the semantics of " grasshopper mind " be fairly self-explanatory . ( 3 ) date the " grasshopper mind " coinage be moot . hard say : ) i ' m sure it 's not particularly recent in origin . . . . i ' m pretty sure it ) must be possible to trace early use of the phrase " grasshopper mind . " siel suggest check aesop 's " the ant and the grasshopper , " and funk & wagnall new standard dictionary ( 1913 ) define _ grasshopper _ as : " 1 . an unsettle and unsteady course of life ; improvident live : from the fable of the grasshopper and the ant . " ( 4 ) " grasshopper mind " have cross-linguistic analogue . schaufele describe it as : ) like all those complex word in german that you can't find in ) any dictionary but which be craft for the nonce by completely ) productive strategy and be perfectly understandable to any ) reasonably-intelligent speaker of the language ( i have to coin one ) of these myself the other day , ' lehrgangsprotokoll ' , to mean what ) we mean here by a 's chool transcript ' ) . spackman think " grasshopper mind " read like a loan translation of a foreign expression , and mention an interest ojibwa calque : ) the phrase " fire stick " which have be give in novel and movie ) to ignorant american native be apparently a literal , morpheme-by - ) morpheme translation of the ojibwa word for a gun . except for one ) thing : it 's not stupid . " fire " here translate " launch a projectile " ) and " stick " be the classifier for a rigid rod . " rigid projectile ) launcher " be not so snappy , but a rather tighter word than " gun " ) do n't you think ? the semantically transparent " grasshopper mind " reveal a lexicographical gap between english dictionary publish in the unite state and the unite kingdom . while unknown to most american anglophone and familiar to many uk anglophone , lexicographer have overlook this metaphor for orthopterous mentality . modern lexicography be benefit from computerize corpus and machine-readable dictionary . for instance , search for adjectival _ grasshopper _ + noun combination in cobuilddirect 's on-line corpus ( direct @ cobuild . collin . co . uk ) reveal three occurrence of " grasshopper mind , " two of " grasshopper warbler , " and one each of " grasshopper leap , " " weather , " and " nijinsky . " many dictionary enter _ grasshopper warbler _ ( locustellum naevium , characterize by its buzz call ) but none _ grasshopper mind _ . further research be necessary . any information about this expression 's historical origin or distributional usage ( seegmiller ask about australian english ) would be gratefully welcome . michael carr , otaru university of commerce , otaru 39 japan email carr @ canal . otaru-uc . ac . jp fax 81 + ( 0 ) 134-22 - 311
