Subject: 

discourse levinsohn , stephen h . ; discourse features of ten languages of west-central africa ; pb . ; isbn : 0-88312 - 619 - 2 ; ix , 241pp . ; $ 30 . 0 . summer institute of linguistic and university of texa arlington . twelve contributer describe discourse feature of ten niger - congo and chadic language of cameroon and border country , use datum that include folktale and other narrative . discussion include how coherence be maintain , participant reference , and marker of prominence and background . internet : academic . book @ sil . org discourse ; africa pragmatics rudanko , juhanus . 1993 . pragmatic approach to shakespeare . essay on othello , coriolanus and timon of athen . lanham , new york and london : the university press of america . field : pragmatic and its application to literature . the book develop method of linguistic pragmatic that can , it be suggest , be apply to the study of dramatic dialogue in three shakespearean tragedy . as far as othello be concern , the method apply include topic analysis and case grammar analysis , the latter apply to soliloquy ; in the case of coriolanus there be a focus on speech act analysis , and as for timon of athen , it be propose that politeness theory shed light on theme of the play . it be argue that the practical application of method of linguistic pragmatic contribute to a better understand of the three play as dramatic work of art and also lead to the further refinement of the method themselve as tool of analysis . syntax the malfrfpirannssknir ( linguist research ) series : volume i : fridrik magnusson : kjarnafaerslum og tad-innskot i aukasetningum i islensku ( topicalization and tad-insertion in subordinate clause in icelandic ) . prize : usd 14 . the main theme of this work be a study on topicalization and tad-insertion in icelandic , the author give a great many example to support his theory . he work whitin the generative tradition , and begin the book with an introducion on generative grammar and x ' - theory . he also examine word order in icelandic and relate language and the method of describe it . volume ii : eirikur rognvaldsson : um ordarod og faerslur i islensku ( on word order and movement in icelandic ) . prize : usd 14 . the author 's main subject be positional transformation in icelandic . he begin by give an account of the basic structure of icelandic sentence , and then turn to movement , topicalization , extraposition , indefinite subject-shift , and indefinite np - shift . finally , he examine the role of movement and its constraint . to order the book from malfrfpirannssknir ( linguist research ) series , please write to : institute of linguistic university of iceland arnagardur v / sudurgotu 101 reykjavik iceland e-mail : malvi @ rhus . hus . be
