Subject: sum : more discussion of human and non-human language

content - length : 18462 there 's be a fair amount of discussion about language among non-human , both publicly on linguist and privately with me , since my previous summa - ry in linguist 6-28 . i have already post to linguist a bibliographical list , broadcast in linguist 6-195 ; here follow a summary of some of the main point that have come up in discussion . first of all , i 'd like to thank the follow people who post message to me personally : dan alford , a . k . a . moonhawk ( dalford @ s1 . csuhayward . edu ) celso alvarez - caccamo ( lxalvarz @ udc . e ) rachel lagunoff ( ihw1009 @ mv . oac . uclum . edu ) dorothy hinshaw patent ( doropatent @ aol . com ) john e . limber ( jel @ christa . unh . edu ) alex schwartz ( alex _ schwartz @ sagepub . com ) andrew spencer ( spena @ essex . ac . uk ) mike tomasello ( toma @ fs1 . psy . emory . edu ) bill turkel ( bill @ hivnet . ubc . ca ) george william ( gww @ navisoft . com ) in addition to these individual , the follow people have post item on the subject of language among nonhuman to linguist since 6-28 . i ' m go to focus less on these in the follow summary , on the assumption that most of you have already read what they have to say . lloyd anderson ( ecole @ applelink . apple . com ) sherrus l . condon ( slc6859 @ usl . edu ) jane a . edward ( edward @ cogscus . berkeley . edu ) larry gorbet ( lgorbet @ mail . unm . edu ) jacque guy ( j . guy @ trl . oz . au ) gilbert harman ( ghh @ princeton . edu ) marion kee ( marion . kee @ a . nl . c . cmu . edu ) bob krovetz ( krovetz @ c . umass . edu ) roger lass ( roger @ beattie . uct . ac . za ) david pesetsky ( pesetsk @ mit . edu ) benjus wald ( ibeneawj @ mv . oac . uclum . edu ) sherman wilcox ( wilcox @ alcor . unm . edu ) one major issue that come up in discussion be the methodological and ethical justification of evaluate the linguistic ability of non-human by confront them with the task of master a language belong to homo sapien , instead of by investigate the means by which they inter - act amongst themselve . in linguist , benjus wald point out that chomsky himself , in a paper pub - lish in the sebeok / sebeok vol . mention in my bibliography in linguist 6-195 , carefully draw the distinction between ' human language ' , the cog - nitive system build into the * human * brain that enable us to master the various human language that be the raw datum of our study , and ' lan - guage ' ( which i shall in this post capitalize - - not to be confuse with lsa 's journal ) , the set of all possible similar system , in whatever species ( or machine ) they may manifest themselve . this phase of the di - cussion begin with the question of the relation between an ability to re - cognize one 's image in a mirror and an ability to handle pronoun of varus - ous sort , include reflexive . ( briefly , dog and cat be able to re - cognize their reflection as member of their own species but consistently treat them as ' other ' , behave toward them as they would to stranger of their own species ; roger lass have suggest that the ability to re - cognize the reflection as 's elf ' may not be evolutionarily advantageous to such predatory animal . the anthropoid ape , however , manage after a few minute to realize that the reflection be 's elf ' , at which point they switch from the 's ocial ' behaviour they would normally use to make the acquaintance of stranger of their own species to use the mirror as a tool for self-inspection . but there have be no evidence present , to my knowledge or that of anyone else on the list , that chimp , gorilla , etc . have any ability to handle anaphoric reference the way human ape do . sherrus condon refer us to the work of her colleague at the univer - sity of southwestern louisiana , daniel j . povinellus , on this subject . ) but ultimately this discussion come back to a fundamental issue raise in my previous summary : even be it possible , through ingenious programme design and / or arduous effort , to teach a real human language to a chimp or a gorilla , the mere fact that the system in question would have to be ' force-feed ' , as it be , be evidence in itself that there be a serious difference between the cognitive system of the two species ( human and non-human ) in question , since human pick the stuff up with almost no train whatsoever . since much of our research programme be dedicate , more or less directly , to investigate the ability of human to learn individual human language ' naturally ' ( i . e . , with a minimum of effort ) - - at least in childhood - - this unredoubt fact place the linguistic ability of non-human at a significant distance from our discipline 's focus area . whether the field of linguistics ought to broaden its focus area to include non-human quasi-linguistic semiotic / communicative system be another question , of course , that be raise in private discussion with me . speak for myself , i be very sympathetic to the notion of embed ( to use a very professional word ) linguistics as we now under - stand it within a broader programme of research into language , include the semiotic / communicative system of non-human animal . suppose that such animal could accomplish the task of master a hu - man language ( which have so far not happen ) , this would certainly prove that the difference in species be not relevant to the nature of the lan - guage in question , much less language in general . but failure to accom - plish the task be not as probative , since it can be interpret in either of at least two way : ( 1 ) the animal in question be no more than ' protolinguistic ' ( to use bickerton 's term ) , unable to master a system of the complexity of human language - - a quantitative evaluation . ( 2 ) the animal in question be already in possession of an equivalent system of comparable complexity but of incompatible organization ( which ipso facto interfere catastrophically with the propose task ) - - a qua - litative evaluation . which of these alternative be correct will require a completely diffe - rend set of experiment , carefully study the communicative behaviour natural to these animal as we linguist study the communicative beha - viour natural to human . one of my correspondent say , ' why be all this effort devote toward teach ape a modify version of english ? a complex and highly social species such as this have an extremely sophisticate natural communication system of its own , yet we know very little about this . . . surely , before embark on experimental meddle of dubious methodological validity , it would be more prudent to construct a research program aim at map out the cognitive ability of the various species and more particularly , their home-grown communication system . presumably , it 's only against the background of how ape communicate with each other in the wild that we will really be able to interpret the kind of artificial experiment pio - neer by the gardner and other . . . when you provide the reference list it would be extremely interest ( though a lot of hard work ) to compare the amount of research effort expend on teach ape 2 - year old english , compare to the number of study devote to ethological study of ape communication . ' a further , relate issue be the epistemological question of how to reco - gnize behaviour in another species that be equivalent to language in hu - man . i remark myself at one point , ' human language be not purely a communication system , and its structure be not base solely on its commu - nicative function . i use language for a variety of function . . . it do not strike me as logically self-evident that all of these function should be serve by the same system . i can imagine a species that en - gage in all of these behaviour but use a radically different system for each . would we be able to recognize all these different system ? and would all of them properly fall into the field of inquiry we call ' lin - guistic ' ? larry gorbet , in his linguist post , touch very well on a further as - pect of this problem , address in particular one of the criticism that have be make of the result achieve by the gardner et al . ' any formal element whose mean include displacement ( or more generally , * any * fairly abstract mean ) will be intrinsically difficult to recognize as such , simply because the " search space " ( for the observable behavior that point to mean ) be so large . the result be an * intrinsic * sample bias in semantic analysis : concrete meaning be more likely to be * disco - ver * than be more abstract one , relative to their actual frequency of occurrence . in addition to abstract meaning in the more obvious sense , meaning which concern internal state ( e . g . " emotion " ) can be difficult to discern if one do n't experience those state or similar one . ' a couple of reference to the science fiction literature be relevant here , science fiction be often very useful for such ' thought-experus - ment ' in the einsteinian sense . h . beam piper , who while definitely not pc be brilliant , write a story call ' naudsonce ' ( pp . 57-112 in the col - lection federation , publish 1981 by ace . piper suicide in 1964 , and i have no idea whether ' naudsonce ' be publish anywhere during his life - time ) , in which an exploration party from earth discover an extrasolar planet inhabit by an obviously sapient species which the explorer la - bel ' svant ' . these people be live at roughly a neolithic cultural / technological level , and there 's no question that they communicate by means of deliberately modulate sound wave transmit through the air , so the human immediately jump to the conclusion that they have something akin to what we call ' language ' , and the professional linguist they ' ve bring along for just such eventuality get to work try to analyse the svant ' ' language ' and establish inter-specy communication . no go . turn out that although both svant and human communicate by means of deliberately modulate , etc . , the resemblance end there . our auditory system ( by which i mean both the auditory center of our brain and the neurosensory system in our ear that serve as their input ) be design to convert auditory impulse into a distinct sensory experience that we call ' hear ' . the svant ' neurosensory system be design to convert such impulse into something more closely approximate the sensory expe - rience that tell us about our internal state ( e . g . , feeling of hunger , thirst , satiation , heartburn , etc . ) . thus , when a human report a feel - ing of pain or pleasure , another human apprehend the message intellectu - ally ; when a svant report such a feel , an equivalent feel be dus - rectly induce in the body of another svant . in order to have any hope of inter-specy communication , the human explorer have to rely on two peculiar individual : a young male svant who be as a result of a birth defect 'd eaf ' , but be otherwise quite intelligent and show promise of be able to master an ideographic write system , and his mother , who be ' normal ' but stick with her son out of maternal affection , and can interpret for him to the rest of the svant community . my point in give this rather lengthy summary be that recognition of the fundamental diffe - rence between the human and svant communicative system constitute a ma - jor , and very challenge , cognitive leap for the human explorer ; can we be confident that a similar cognitive leap would not be necessary for us in evaluate the cognitive behaviour of non-human ape , cetacean , etc . ? ( piper , speak through some of his character , express scepticism that a species whose principal communication system so thoroughly bypa - se the ' higher / rational ' cognitive center can develop very far in the way of civilization . i personally do n't share his scepticism . several of us during discussion have consider that cetacean use sound both as their principal means of explore the world around them , vium sonar , and apparently to communicate . this suggest that a cetacean mode of commu - nication may involve ' project ' a sonar ' image ' of what one be talk - ing about into the listener 's brain . such projection may involve vocalus - zation skill level outside the ability of cetacean ; but assume they could do it , i do n't think such 'd irect ' communicative method preclude a high level of civilization . i ' m not sure they ' re all that different from the ability of the chinese , or of fluent signer , to communicate highly abstract concept by means of what be essentially visual imagery . ) those of you who have read suzette hayden elgin 's intrigue though dif - fuse novel native tongue may remember that in that novel , human , have over the course of several decade establish contact with a variety of alien species and manage to negotiate profitable trade deal with seve - ral of them in spite of the obvious language barrier ( the only reason the generally despise profession of ' linguist ' be allow to survive in this crypto-fascist state ) , encounter a species that be obviously sapus - ent and obviously endow with something in the way of a language ( if i remember correctly , it 's not make clear exactly how this be recognize ) , but that ' language ' be so radically different from human language in its structural organization that no human seem to be able to get the hang of it ( several people die try ) . in both case , we be leave with the big question : what , exactly , constus - tute language , or a ' language ' ? and how do we recognize one if it exist ? on the subject of the cognitive organization of the brain of non-human primate , steven pinker , on p . 350 of his recent book the language in - tinct : how the mind create language , discuss their equivalent of broca 's and wernicke 's area : ' the neuroanatomist al galaburda and terrence deacon have discover area in monkey brain that correspond in location , input-output cable , and cellular composition to the human language area . for example , there be homologue to wernicke 's and broca 's area and a band of fiber connect the two , just as in human . the region be not involve in produce the monkey ' call , nor be they involve in produce their gesture . the monkey seem to use the region correspond to wernicke 's area and its neighbor to recognize sound sequence and to discriminate the call of other monkey from its own call . the broca 's homologue be involve in control over the mus - cle of the face , mouth , tongue , and larynx , and various subregion of these homologue receive input from the part of the brain dedicate to hear , the sense of touch in the mouth , tongue , and larynx , and area in which stream of information from all the senses converge . ' for those of you who be interest , the relevant reference be : deacon , t . w . 1988 . ' evolution of human language circuit ' in h . jerison & i . jerison , ed . , intelligence and evolutionary biology . new york : springer . - - - - . 1989 . ' the neural circuitry underly primate call and human language ' human evolution 4 : 367-401 . galaburda , a . m . & d . n . pandya . 1982 . ' role of architectonic and con - nection in the study of primate brain evolution ' in e . armstrong & d . falk , ed . , primate brain evolution . new york : plenum . beyond this , there be the fact that the integration of even complex so - cial system be not enough to account for the complexity of human lan - guage . a large number of human social situation seem to be manageable by just a few dozen different utterance ; yet we have a natural lingui - tic ability vastly in excess of that . i suspect that our ancestor may have develop that ability through some nonce mutation , and then over the subsequent millenium have gradually develop use for it . ( for some at least tangentially relevant thought on this subject , see theodore zeldin 's recently publish intimate history of humanity , harper - collin . ) before close this post , i will quote the follow from dorothy hinshaw patent 's message to me , and reiterate my plea in linguist 6-28 for more user-friendliness in our interaction with people who be rea - sonably intelligent , may be well-educate , may even be fellow scientist , but just be n't linguist . ' i be very frustrate by the critic of the ape language work ; they seem to be look for reason to say the work do n't have mean , and i think your piece summarize many of the frustration of people like me very well . would that everyone be able to think so clearly ! what i 'd like to see be a linguistic analysis - - use minimal linguistic jargon , so zoologist and psychologist could understand it , too - - of the work do with ape , dolphin , sea lion , and parrot , compare the " accom - plishment " of the different species to one another and to human chil - dren . i 'd like the person do it to make the assumption , as you have , that the work does have mean , and go from there , rather than try to find picky reason for discount it because of human hubris . ' let us instead adopt the attitude express by sherrus condon : ' i think we have much to learn about cognition and communication in all species , and we be fortunate that careful researcher be on the job . ' of course , as be alway true not * all * researcher ' on the job ' be ' careful ' , by which i understand ' responsible , not wed to their hypothesis to such an ex - tent that they be unable to wrestle appropriately with contrary evidence or alternative approach ' , but the responsible one definitely deserve encouragement ! best , steven - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - dr . steven schaufele 712 west washington urbana , il 61801 217-344 - 8240 fcosw @ prairienet . org * * * * o syntagma linguarum libereminus humanarum ! * * * * * * nihil vestri privarus nisus obicibus potesti ! * * *
