Subject: sum : function word

i . the question and its motivation three week ago or so , i ask linguist reader to help me find example of function word with unusually specific meaning . this be mean to elicit example that i could mention in a paper call " the formal semantic of grammaticalization " , where i discuss what happen to the mean of a content morpheme that develop into a function morpheme . i argue there , develop work by other semanticist / logician , that ( 1 ) function morpheme do have meaning ( contrary to a widespread assumption ) . just consider that the meaning of quantifier , tense , aspect , modal , etc . be the bread and butter of us work semanticist . ( 2 ) there be a class of " logical " meaning that have certain formal property ( permutation-invariance , high type ) . ( 3 ) unfortunately , there be no perfect correlation between logical meaning and functional morpheme . there be lexical / content morpheme with ( almost ) logical meaning ( adjective " same " , " mere " , " allege " , verb " deny " , " believe " , noun " majority " , etc . ) . and there may be functional morpheme with non-logical meaning ( hence the linguist query ) . ( 4 ) thus there be not much that we can say about what happen to the mean of a morpheme that be become grammaticalize . although i make some presumably doom effort . the finish paper ( which be base on a talk i give at the nels 25 workshop on language change ) will appear in the nels 25 proceeding ( to be available from the glsa at umass amherst , glsa @ linguist . umass . edu ) . the paper be downloadable by anonymous ftp from the follow url : ftp : / / broca . mit . edu / pub / fintel / gramma . p i would welcome any comment . ii . some of the response : mark robert hale ( hale1 @ alcor . concordium . ca ) write : ) the reference [ to the pejorative pronoun " you shit " ] ) be samuel elbert 's grammar of ) rennellese / bellona , " echo of a culture : a grammar ) of rennell and bellona " , uhawaius press 1988 ) [ oceanic linguistic special publication no . 22 ] . ) ) a few interest case of ) grammaticalization of a somewhat relevant ) type do exist . in micronesian language ) there be a set of verbal affix for ) directionality ( up , down , toward speaker , ) toward hearer , toward some third ) party [ the usual deixi system ] ) which ) also include " toward the open ocean " ) and " toward the lagoon " ; wherea ( of course ) ) if you want to say " toward john 's house " ) ( or some other nonce collocation ) ) you need to use a pp . ) ) similar , but probably not similar enough , ) be the bizarre use of the cardinal directional ) in icelandic document in a classic paper ) by einar haugen ( i can dig up the reference ) if you really want it ) . it seem like , be ) predominantly coastal inhabitant , and have ) a rather uneven fjord coastline , to go ) to a city which be north of you actually ) involve head out in a southerly ) direction ( all that time ) . ( or , if you ) live on the north coast , go south ) frequently involve your walk north ) or northeast . . . ) . the system end up totally ) screw up , as i recall ( it 's be some ) time since i read the article - - hoskus ) thrainsson at harvard would probably know ) the relevant fact [ thrainss @ fa . harvard . edu ] ) , ) when the cardinal direction be grammaticalize ) with inverse force from their original ) semantics with verb of motion ( or some ) such thing ) . ) ) the " river name " case be suppose to salishan . ) maybe sally thomason will respond to your ) linguist post , otherwise you may write ) to her ( sally @ pogo . isp . pitt . edu ) . although ) the salish speaker she 's actually work ) with be land-bound , she 's do some historical ) salishan and probably know the basic fact . ) ) the only other case i can think may not be ) all that relevant , either , i guess , but it 's ) kind of interest nonetheless . in ho - min ) sohn 's " woleaian reference grammar " , i suspect ) in the discussion of noun incorporation ) ( but possibly elsewhere ) , he state that ) bare n object obligatorily incorporate ) ( so ' i eat fish ' be ungrammatical , one have ) to say ' i fish-eat ' - - this be generally ) true with micronesian transitive clause ; ) i ' ve write about it 's history ) . definite ) np object cannot incorporate ( * i the-fish eat ) . ) nor can n 's that be modify by anything ) ( so ' i eat big fish ' be fine , in spite of ) the fact that ' i eat fish ' be garbage - - clearly ) a structural constraint : only head can ) incorporate ) . anyway , " doctor " cannot ) incorporate under any circumstance , because ) there 's only ever be one doctor on woleaus ! ) so it 's inherently specific , as it be . ) [ woleaus be an atoll , population ca . 250 . ] ) like i say , maybe not directly relevant , ) but kinda cute . . . david gil ( ellgild % nusvm . bitnet @ mitvma . mit . edu ) write : ) i can think of so many example of what you ' re look for that ) i suspect there 's some terminological confusion . ) ) classifier . they ' re about as idiosyncratic and as contentful ) as you 'd like - - but their use be clearly functional . arguably ) so when in " numeral classifier " position , more clearly so when ) function as nominalizer ( eg . clf john see , mean " the one ) john see " ) , ligature / relativizer ( eg . movie clf john see , ) mean " the movie which john see " , or article ( eg . clf movie , ) mean " the movie " ) . ( i ' m presently work on the syntax ) and semantics of these construction in se asian language . ) ) ) then , pronoun . i do n't know of any " you shit " example , but ) in se asian language pronoun come with all sort of idiosyncratic ) and culture-bound " honorific " content . ) ) i could go on . . . halum 's z sa ' ndor ( halasz @ kewszeg . norden1 . com ) write : ) are the old germanic prepozition enough for you : " benorth " , " beeast " , ) . . . ? i believe that in iceland they yet be find . old english have a ) bunch of word beside these that be adj 's that also behave as ) prep 's ; the one leave be " near " , but on the other hand " du " be pickd ) up : " the honor du me " , " tomorrow this be du " . it sumtime seem to me ) that in old germanic the prep 's be an open class , with rule for ) make one from adj 's or other word . " randy j . lapolla " ( hslapolla @ ccvax . sinica . edu . tw ) write : ) in the qiang language ( tibeto - burman family , sino - tibetan stock ) ) there be system of verb prefix that refer to geographic landmark ) such as " toward the river " , " toward the mountian " , aside from ) " normal " reference such as " toward the speaker " , etc . most ) interest be that these prefix also mark achievement v . state , ) and also perfective v . imperfective . lee hartman ( ga5123 @ siucvmb . siu . edu ) write : ) the follow be probably not exactly what you be look for , ) but it do bear some similarity to your example of ) preposition that refer to the nearby river . ) indonesian have four word for north , south , east , and west , ) - - al monomorphemic so far as i know . but northeast and northwest be ) respectively _ timur laut _ and _ barat laut _ , ) literally east sea west sea ) ( southeast be _ tenggara _ - - monomorphemic ? - - ) and i have n't yet find a southwest . ) thank you all for your very interest comment . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - kaus von fintel dept . of linguistic & philosophy mit , cambridge , ma 02139 email : fintel @ mit . edu http : / / broca . mit . edu / fintel . home . html
