Subject: obligatory affix : summary

several week ago i ask how the traditional notion of obligatory affix be recast in the theory of realizational morphology . the responce be not exactly overwhelm , but i wish to thank greg stump ( eng101 @ ukcc . uky . edu ) , don ringe ( dringe @ unagus . ci . upenn . edu ) , r . beard ( rbeard @ coral . bucknell . edu ) , and andrew carstair - mccarthy ( a . c-mcc @ ling . canterbury . ac . nz ) for helpful response . a few response ( slightly edit ) : greg stump : in paradigm function theory , a language 's inventory of morphosyntactic feature be assume to determine - - for any major syntactic category x - - a paradigm schema : a set of cell each of which be associate with a complete and fully specify set of morphosyntactic feature specification appropriate to category x . in latin , for example , the feature of case ( i . e . nominative , genitive , dative , accusative , ablative ) , number ( singular , plural ) , and gender ( masculine , feminine , neuter ) determine a paradigm schema for adjective which consist of thirty cell , one for each of the case / number / gender combination for which adjective may be inflect . an adjective 's paradigm be then view as the inventory of inflect form assign to these cell . for any give cell c in the adjectival paradigm schema , there be a correspond paradigm function which apply to an adjectival lexeme l to yield the inflect form of l assign to c . paradigm function be define in term of more specific morphological rule , include rule of exponence and rule of referral ; two or more of these may come into competition in the evaluation of a give paradigm function , in which case the narrower rule override the more general . how , then , be the notion of obligatory affix recast in this theory ? notice first that the architecture of the theory guarantee that every inflect word w of category x will be associate with a complete and fully specify set of morphosyntactic feature specification appropriate to x , and that it be this set of specification that drive the inflection of w . in other word , it be the morphology , not ( pace anderson ) the syntax , that ` ensure that any give word have all the feature require by the affix in question ' . ( naturally , i assume that a lexeme 's invariant feature specification - - e . g . a noun 's gender - - be simply supply by its lexical entry . ) second , if a particular affix position must be fill , then that position can be assume to be associate with a set of rule of affixal exponence the least narrow of which function as the default for that position . [ i have some question about how that work where the choice of one affix seem to require the presence of morphosyntactic feature which be otherwise absent , but it may be that all such example could be reanalyze . it would be unfair of me to say more until i ' ve have a chance to correspond with greg . - - mm ] [ some reference : ] ` a paradigm-base theory of morphosemantic mismatch ' , _ language _ 67 ( 1991 ) , 675-725 . ` on the theoretical status of position class restriction on inflectional affix ' , in _ yearbook of morphology 1991 _ , ed . by geert booij and jaap van marle , 211-241 . ( dordrecht : kluwer , 1992 ) . ` position class and morphological theory ' , in _ yearbook of morphology 1992 _ , ed . by geert booij and jaap van marle , 129-180 . ( dordrecht : kluwer , 1993 ) . ` on rule of referral ' , _ language _ 69 ( 1993 ) , 449-479 . ` the uniformity of head mark in inflectional morphology ' , to appear in _ yearbook of morphology 1994 _ , ed . by geert booij and jaap van marle . ( dordrecht : kluwer , 1995 ) . don ringe suggest consult the mit dissertation of r . rolf noyer , " feature , position , and affix in autonomous morphological structure " ( mit work paper in linguistic , dept . of linguistic and philosophy , room 20d-219 , mit , cambridge , ma 02139 ; email address : mitwpl @ athena . mit . edu ; cost $ 12 plus $ 2 s / h in us , $ 3 outside us ) . for background read on noyer 's dissertation , he recommend the paper by halle & marantz in the festschrift for sylvain bromberger ( call * the view from build 20 * ) . r . beard mention a book ( of his , i believe ) " lexeme - morpheme base morphology " publish by suny press , " hopefully , in june " . hbe theory assume the complex ip functional category of current p&p for tense , aspect , mood , etc . ; there also morpholexical feature ( which i assume to be thing like gender ) .
