Subject: sixth jk conference

content - length : 3595 call for papers the sixth japanese / korean linguistic conference university of hawaius at manoa august 8 - 10 , 1995 deadline for submission of abstract : april 30 , 1995 on - campus accommodation and board will be provide for presenter . keynote speaker samuel martin ( professor emeritus ) yale university noriko akatsuka university of californium , lo angele this conference aim to provide a forum for present research in korean and japanese linguistics , thereby facilitate effort to deepen our understand of these two language , which have strike typological similarity . potential topic include , but be not limit to : syntax , semantics , phonology , morphology , pragmatic , historical linguistics , typology , psycholinguistic , sociolinguistic , language acquisition , and discourse . presentation be 20 minute long and will be follow by a 10 minute question / answer period . abstract should include : 1 . seven ( 7 ) copy of a one-page abstract ( no more than 500 word ) with a title . omit your name and affiliation from the abstract . the one-page ( 500 word ) limit should be strictly observe ; a second page may be use only for datum and cite reference . 2 . a 3 " by 5 " card with the title of the paper , the name of the author ( s ) , the mail address of the author , the author 's affiliation , phone number , fax number , and e-mail address . if your address , phone number , or e-mail address will be different for any period prior to the conference , please include that information as well . 3 . a self-address , stamp postcard if you wish to be notify when your abstract have be receive 4 . only one abstract may be submit as a single author . the same person may also submit one jointly author abstract . abstract should be send to one of the address below by april 30 , 1995 . on the face of the envelope , to the right of the mail address , please print " discourse / functional " or " formal " , as appropriate . please note that phonology and phonetics be to be include under the category formal . sohn ( formal ) j / k conference dept of east asian lang & lits university of hawaius at manoa 1890 east west road honolulu , hi 96822 iwasakus ( discourse / functional ) j / k conference dept of east asian lang & culture ucla lo angele , ca 90095-1540 the proceedings of this conference will be publish as japanese / korean linguistic vol . 6 by the center for the study of language and information and will be distribute through cambridge university press . please contact john haig for question and further information . hbe e-mail address be : haig @ uhunix . uhcc . hawaius . edu
