Subject: job open at ucla

please ignore the nov . 30 deadline on the previous announcement of this open . ucla extension continue to accept application for the job open below until the position be fill . ucla extension head of the american language center ucla extension seek an experience esl professional to direct the american language center ( alc ) . this individual be reponsible for the development and market ( domestic and international ) as well as the implementation of a wide range of english as a second language program . these include a year-round intensive program , part-time even credit , non-credit and short-term special contract program . the alc serve about 2300 international student annually and provide , in addition to language instruction , other support include student visa , house and academic counsel . the successful candidate will be responsible for - the fiscal oversight and management of a budget of approx . 3 million dollar - an administrative staff of 12 to 20 and a teach staff of 30 to 90 , depend on the time of year - program promotion and market - curriculum development the american language center be a unit within the department of humanity , science , and social science . under the guidance of the department director , the head of alc will plan and implement international continue education program in various subject area combine with language train . he / she will have a lead role in the general international market of ucla extension program and will work with a wide variety of inter - and intra-institutional organization . required qualifications : - a minimum of a master 's degree in tesl or a closely relate field . - a minimum of five year demonstrate successful experience in direct similar program . - familiarity with foreign travel and culture ; a foreign language capability prefer . - demonstrate ability in write , public speak ; - outstand academic and administrative leadership skill ; - demonstrate expertise in the management of a multi-million dollar esl program within a large , complex educational institution . salary be commensurate with education and experience . application deadline : the position be open and be to be fill as soon as possible . to request additional position information or to apply , contact : beth marshall director of human resource ucla extension 10995 le conte avenue lo angele , ca 90024
