Subject: workshop announcement articulatory databases

workshop on articulatory databases munich thursday 25th and friday 26th may , 1995 we be currently start the preparation for a two-day workshop on articulatory database . this will be the third in the series of workshop organize by the accor work group ( a consortium of phonetic institute finance by the european community 's esprit programme ) and and follow the electromagnetic articulography meet in munich ( april , 1992 ) , and the tongue model meet in barcelona ( december 1993 ) . a few word on the aim of a meet devote to such an apparently dry topic : the basic premise be that the free availability of articulatory datum could provide benefit in several partly overlap area : in basic research it could allow investigator to test hypothesis formulate in articulatory term on a much wider range of datum than the individual worker would normally be able to acquire or access unaid . it could promote the development and test of algorithm for derive articulatory representation from acoustic datum - relevant both for basic understand of speech production as well as in potential application such as speech display for train the speech impair . it could promote the development and test of algorithm for speech synthesis / recognition use an articulatory level of representation . the aim of the workshop would be to generate an exchange of idea among people active in these area in order to identify , for example ( further suggestion welcome ) : 1 ) what articulatory datum be in existence that it would be beneficial to make more freely available ( archival / retrospective approach ) ? 2 ) what standard should freely available datum meet ? - specification of record condition - anatomical frame of reference - level of accuracy / reliability - linguistic specification of the speech sample - prefer datum structure for distribution . - any other issue relevant to the datum be use without risk of misinterpretation by people not actually involve in the the detail of acquisition articulatory datum can come in many guise depend on the speech subsystem tap into and the transduction technique use . thus , it be possible to monitor position ( 1 , 2 or 3 dimension ) , force , emg , airpressure / flow with technique that may be static or dynamic , may involve image or point-track etc . etc . we think that people directly involve in acquisition can also benefit from consider how technique can be standardize to promote maximum comparability of recording make at different site and with different hardware . 3 ) in analogy to acoustic database ( where unlabel datum be of only the most limit use ) , what segmentation and label information ( and tool for the exploitation thereof ) could / should be make available with the raw datum to facilitate flexible access for different purpose ? 4 ) for future recording , what category of datum and corpus would be potentially of most widespread use ? if you be interest in participate please contact phil hoole ( preferably by email ) at the address below as soon as possible . further information on registration and format for presentation will be distribute early in 1995 . please also draw this letter to the attention of any colleague you think may be interest . phil hoole and han tillmann institut fuer phonetik munich university schellingstr . 3 d - 80799 munich germany fax : + 49 89 2800362 email : hoole @ sun1 . phonetik . uni-muenchen . de
