Subject: release of agfl home page

this message announce the release of the world wide web home page of agfl ( affix grammar over a finite lattice ) . 1 . agfl the agfl formalism , develop at the university of nijmegen , the netherland , be a formalism in which context free grammar can be describe compactly . agfls be two level grammar : a first , context free level be augment with feature for express agreement between part of speech . feature be treat as type , and their value may range over the subset of a give finite set , which explain the acronym affix grammar over a finite lattice . agfl grammar be transform into a parser by the parser generator opt . the generate parser be a recursive backup parser which compute the value of the affix on the fly . in this way , fast and efficient parser can be generate . the formalism be quite simple and limit , and therefore easy to read and write . agfl come with a grammar workbench gwb , support the development of grammar and the check of their consistency . the agfl formalism do not require any special hardware . the parser generator opt run on regular sparc - system and ms-dos machine ( 386 or higher ) and be relatively small . for instance , the ms-dos version require less than 1 mb harddisk space . 2 . agfl on the web agfl have now be make available to the ( computational ) linguistic community . we think it can be use by ( computational ) linguist who be in need of a simple grammar formalism with a fast parser generator , suitable for experimental purpose . therefore , we have make agfl available vium ftp and , recently , vium www . the agfl home page contain information about the agfl formalism like the agfl manual , documentation and papers , sample grammar and the latest development . there be also the possibility to download the software and to register yourself as an agfl user . you be invite to take a look at the home page and to read the information or to download the software . please feel free to make use of agfl and its home page ; we look forward to hear about your experience . we be currently plan an agfl workshop in june . the latest news about this workshop can also be find on the agfl home page . the url of the agfl home page be : http : / / www . c . kun . nl / agfl / the address of the ftp - site be : ftp : / / hade . c . kun . nl / pub / agfl / the organisation of the www page should be self-explanatory . the structure of the ftp - site be as follow : - readme - doc : this directory contain a number of relevant papers - pc386 : this directory contain software for ms-dos machine and an installation guide . - sun4 : this directory contain software for sparc - station and an installation guide . any question or remark with respect to agfl or the agfl home page can be send to : www-agfl @ c . kun . nl . on behalf of the agfl team , erik oltman department of computer science university of nijmegen the netherland
