Subject: fracas project ( computational semantic ) - deliverable , www home page

we would like to announce the world wide web page of the fracas project , at url : http : / / www . cogscus . ed . ac . uk / ~ fracas / fracas - a framework for computational semantic - be a two-year , lre - fund project study theory of semantic interpretation and their application in natural language process . the participant in the project be cwi amsterdam , sri cambridge , and the university of edinburgh , saarbruecken , and stuttgart . the deliverable produce in the first year of the project be available : from our www site ; by ftp at ftp . cogscus . ed . ac . uk , directory pub / fracas ; or by send mail to fracas @ cogscus . ed . ac . uk . ( a list of the deliverable be enclose below . ) our www site include pointer to the deliverable , to the www page of the participate site , to other project in computational semantics , and to site involve in research in natural language process . for more information on the fracas project , contact : the fracas project administrator university of edinburgh centre for cognitive science 2 buccleuch place edinburgh eh8 9lw , scotland , uk fracas @ cogscus . ed . ac . uk the member of the fracas consortium . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - recent fracas deliverable - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - deliverable d7 , december 1994 : harmonize the approach our preliminary work toward harmonize the approach to semantics that be study in fracas have lead , on the one hand , to the compilation of a list of basic linguistic phenomenon that a semantic theory have to account for ; this list have be use to arrive at the in-depth comparison among the semantic theory under study present in deliverable 8 . on the other hand , we identify a set of basic semantic tool such as generalise quantifier theory or abstraction that all of the theory under discussion make use of , although very often these tool be interpret in different way in the theory under discussion ( e . g . , although all theory have a notion of abstraction , the actual property of the abstraction operation in these theory differ widely ) . both the list of basic linguistic phenomenon and the set of basic semantic tool be discuss in this deliverable . we also address the issue of whether the problem that be important from a technical point of view be also important from the point of view of natural language process application , by identify a set of form of natural language use that one could reasonably expect an nlp system will have to deal with , and by verify whether the technically challenge datum can be encounter in these form of text . - - - - - deliverable d8 , december 1994 : describe the approach this deliverable contain a detail discussion of the semantic tool use by the five semantic theory study in the fracas project - discourse representation theory , update and dynamic logic , monotonic semantic , property theory , and situation theory - together with a presentation of the syntax / semantics interface adopt by each theory . - - - - - deliverable d9 , december 1994 : the state of the art in computational semantic : evaluate the descriptive capability of semantic theory in this deliverable we discuss the analysis of the linguistic phenomenon discuss in deliverable d7 propose by the five semantic theory study in the fracas project and present in deliverable d8 . - - - - - deliverable d10 , january 1994 : evaluate the state of the art in this deliverable we discuss the theme of the interface to semantics , underspecification , contextual reason , inference , and lexical semantics . we present a brief survey of some implement system that be base at least in part on some of the approach to semantics that we have describe in deliverable d8 and d9 . in order to grind discussion of the various theme and approach in this deliverable we include an annotate text ( " eurodisney " ) that illustrate the range and variety of semantic phenomenon to be find even in the simplest newspaper article . we classify the phenomenon illustrate by this text so as to give some idea of what be within the state of the art , and what area still require a good deal of research . the final section amplify this latter theme , try to summarise the future direction that computational semantics may need to take in order to achieve some of the goal sketch out earlier in the document .
