Subject: summary : expletive negation in modern hebrew

on february 27 , i post a querry on expletive negation in modern hebrew . i want to thank ariel cohen ( ariel _ cohen @ riga . mt . c . cmu . edu ) , michael ephratt ( rhlh702 @ uvm . haifa . ac . il ) , bob fradkin ( raf100f @ oduvm . cc . odu . edu ) , laurence horn ( lhorn @ yalevm . ci . yale . edu ) , paul rowlett ( p . a . rowlett @ mod - lang . salford . ac . uk ) and lucium tovena ( tovena @ latl . unige . ch ) for their comment . my querry originate from michael moore 's comment to the effect that in modern hebrew , the sentence negation of subordinate clause dominate by before , until and i ' m afraid can be interpret referentially or expletively . accord to ariel cohen , only until context allow an expletive negation . bob fradkin mentionn that expletive negation in mh seem less frequent than in french . while it seem that expletive negation in mh have a narrower domain of use than in french , there may also be a question of style involve here ; while expletive negation be an aknowledge grammatical feature of formal style in french , it may be a non-standard feature of mh . this be suggest to me by the fact that neither glinert 1989 suggest by michael ephratt nor rosen 1977 even mention expletive negation in mh . lucium tovena point me to her 1994 paper in geneva generative papers about italian , hungarian and hindus expletive negation in until context . for a typological overview of expletive negation , one can consult horn 1978 , which show the typological extension of the phenomenon . now , i ' m still leave with a few unanswer question . i ' m surprise that there apparently do n't exist any study on the topic in mh . i wonder whether i should be look in the direction of ancient hebrew . a question of more general interest be how to deal with divergent distribution of a phenomenon across language ; in other word , how should the fact that expletive negation exist in comparative and fear context in a large number of language but not in mh ? ? could matter of style , as suggest above , explain this ? ? thank for those who respond and for those who will . - glinert , l . , 1989 , the grammar of modern hebrew , cambridge up . - horn , l . , 1978 , some aspect of negation , j . greenberg , universal of human language , vol . 4 , standford up , 127-210 . - moore , m . , 1992 , double negation , et cetera , 304-309 . - rosen , 1977 , contemporary hebrew . pierre larrivee departement de langue et linguistique , universite laval , quebec , canada , g1k 7p4 3914larp @ vm1 . ulaval . ca
