Subject: temp position in syntax

the program in linguistic , institute of linguistic and asian and slavic language and literature ( ilasll ) , at the university of minnesota invite application for a full-time temporary ( non-tenure track ) position for a specialist in syntactic theory ( any lead framework ) at the assistant professor level for the 1995-96 academic year . the teach load will be five course over three quarter , begin 16 september 1995 . specific teach responsibility include a two-quarter introductory sequence in syntax ; an undergraduate introduction to linguistics ; one graduate seminar in syntax on a topic of choice ; and a second graduate course in an area of choice ( morphological or phonological theory , semantics / pragmatic , or historical linguistics be prefer ) . other responsibility include maintain research activity , advise of graduate student , and service on departmental committee . essential qualification include the ph . d . in linguistic and university-level teach experience ; applicant with scholarly publication and presentation be prefer . the linguistic program at the twin city campus of the university of minnesota offer the b . a . , m . a . , and ph . d . degree in linguistics and maintain strong tie to graduate program and research center in cognitive science , communication disorder , and language acquisition . applicant should send a resume , a letter of application describe current research and teach interest , and three letter of reference to : chair , linguistic search committee program in linguistic , ilasll 192 klaeber court university of minnesota 320 - 16th avenue se minneapoli , mn 55455 all material must be receive by 14 april 1995 . further information can be obtain by letter to the above address or e-mail direct to bdown @ maroon . tc . umn . edu . the university of minnesota be commit to the policy that all person shall have equal access to its program , facility , and employment without regard to race , color , creed , religion , national origin , sex , age , marital status , disability , public assistance status , veteran status , or sexual orientation .
