Subject: summary : whatever happen to 'd ?

a few week ago i post a query to the list regard the disappearance of had or its contract form ' d , in such expression as she better stop , which appear in a recent academic publication . i question people 's attitude toward the standardisation of this new form ( better ) , the subsequent status of the bare infinitive ( stop ) , the possibility of its association with the extrapose construction it is better that she stop , ( imply a subjunctive analysis of stop ) and the likelihood of substitute another adjective ( e . g . good ) in place of better have a result of this . i also question the possibility of invert better with the subject in interrogative , give the analysis of it as an auxiliary form . i receive 26 reply , and i would like to thank the follow people who send their comment , and anyone who be yet to do so : tamara al - kasey ; eleanor old batchelder ; jonathon berg ; claudium brugman ; marsha bundman ; ellen continus - morava ; max copperman ; john cowan ( logical language group ) david fertig ; frederik fouvry ; dorine houston ; marge jackman ; roger lass ; deborah d . kelum ruuskanen ; jame kirchner ; timothy miller ; catherine rudin ; raphael salkie ; alena sanusus ; hal schiffman ; jane simpson ; dan slobin ; frit stuurman ; larry trask ; ivan uemlianen ; max wheeler . of 18 reply to the question of standardisation , 9 reply that it be not to be consider standard , 9 think that it be either normal , informal or ok , and 8 do not consider this question . nobody like the analysis of stop as a subjunctive , 2 people consider that the extrapose derivation sound educate or stilt . one reply consider that stop be an imperative form . four people reply that better be an auxiliary , 7 think it be a modal or semi-modal , and 2 think that the construction be simply idiomatic . john cowan make mention of the use of better in yiddish - influence american english as a sentence prefix : ' better she should n't go ' . with regard to its inversion in interrogative , 9 people consider sai be not ok , one person think it ok to invert in tag , and only one person think main clause sai sound ok . i also want to thank frederik fouvry for his reference : " information base syntax and semantics " ( hpsg vol . 1 , pollard & sag , 1987 ) in which better be analyse as an auxiliary that do n't allow inversion ; and frit stuurman for his reference and comment : in g . gazdar , g . pullum , & i . sag ( 1982 ) " auxiliary and relate phenomenon in a restrict theory of phrase structure " _ language _ 59 , 3 : 591-638 , pp . 610-611 , there be a reference to aren ' t as a similar case ( aren ' t i v . i aren ' t ) ; and in gazdar , e . klein , pullum & sag ( 1985 ) _ generalize phrase structure grammar _ ( cambridge , mass . : harvard up ) , p . 64 , and gazdar , pullum & sag ( 1982 ) , p . 611 , footnote 17 , there be reference to different meaning of modal like shall and might when invert for interrogative . frit stuurman also cite a gpsg reference to the use of better in p . sell ( 1985 ) _ lecture on government - bind theory , generalize phrase structure grammar , and lexical - functional grammar _ ( stanford : csli ) , p . 93 . many people find analogy with other modal that do not invert , e . g . claudium brugman mention the difficulty of invert ' she have to stop ' ) * ' has she to stop ? ' and gotta be equally impossible to invert . jame kirchner also mention otta as a similar case . tamara al - kasey compare the negative and the affirmative interrogative : * ' had she better stop ? ' and ' had n't she better stop ? ' suggest that the latter be more acceptable . other interest item be : the vp - deletion version , observe by max wheeler ' we better have ' ; and at least 2 people consider that had seem to return only for inversion for interrogative . generally , the use of inversion of better + subject be consider more common in tag , especially amongst child or teenager , and jane simpson think that the tag bettern ' t you be now appear in australian english , with or without the precede ' d . ivan uemlianen ( british speaker from northern england ) claim he have alway use the tag ' bettern ' t i ? ' as a child , which have alway strike him as not quite right , and have never hear of the had until he hear it be use in old film . dan slobin consider the use of had to be archaic , or from another variety or era , although the inversion ' better she go ? ' do not appear in the speech of american - english preschooler in their datum . one respondent do n't know where the had come from , and another reanalyse it as would , in the same way as it have be reanalyse in conditional protase . another suggestion be that it be analogous to a pluperfect auxiliary without tense . two reply that the expression she better stop be just an example of sloppy edit . there be little discussion of phonological process , but , in particular , i find interest the follow comment by roger lass : " in my dialect anyhow ( new york city middle class ) , it 's certainly normal to say ( and sometime , in less formal register , to write ) , i better , you better , he better , we better , they better . . . observe though : all the pronoun end with a vowel , and there be alternative form , e . g . i 'd better . . . though these be much less common . there be however another type , which be sometime take to be better but be n't : you [ b ] better , where there 's a sort of geminate or at least half-long consonant . the very fact that none of the syntactic thing you mark with * or ? seem to occur would be an indication that there have not really be any kind of reanalysis , but rather an institutionalization of a fast-speech deletion and / or assimilation , which be creep up into slower style ( as often happen ) . in fact the construction itself be weird anyhow , since you have comparative do n't seem to exist , except in archaism like ' i 'd liefer do that ' ( i can't use it , but i ' ve hear it ) . note also , it 's just occur to me , that you do n't get deletion of - 'd in * i rather do that . . . " this last comment i think give us plenty of scope for more discussion . debbie ziegeler
