Subject: 8 - bite character

dear fellow linguist : in the past month i have read several posting to this list use language other than english ( spanish , german , french , finnish , italian , etc . ) . i consider this situation absolutely delicious , as it add that international flavour that our discipline be so proud of . as english be not my native tongue , i welcome and exercise my right to use my language in all context . however , the notorious difficulty that 8 - bite character have to travel in the cyberspace have make it really hard to send text that comply with the spell convention of these language ( basically accent and umlaut vowel , greek letter and certain other symbol ) . this be not a big problem when you be just send a relatively short e-message to a colleague who speak the same language ( you just drop the accent and type plain vowel or capital instead , for enye you type a plain " n " , etc . ) . the real trouble arise when you wish to send a more polish document such as a paper , an abstract , a conference post , a bibliography , a draft of a thesis to a distant supervisor , etc . in most of these case the spell norm * be * crucial . the obvious solution be the code of 8 - bite character as sequence of 7 - bite character . i think that this have become a common practice , but i do n't know whether there be a standard for these conversion . if this code practice have not yet be the object of standardisation , i venture to propose one below . this proposal refer to the character available in the extend character set on ibm pc - compatible computer ( i be not familiar with mac , but this could also be use in that system ) . i would like to stress the fact that it be not necessary to type the ( long ) document use the code system , rather the file must type as usual , with accent and umlaut vowel as well as the rest of the character need in the language , and just after that you make a copy of the file and on that copy you change the 8 - bite character for 7 - bite sequence accord to the table provide . this procedure be * not * manual , for this you use the search-and - replace facility normally available in your word processor or editor ( remember : the dos editor have it ) . this can be do for most language in ten or fewer pass ( less than one minute , vary with the size of the file ) . it be important to let the recipient know that you have code the file in this fashion . append a note at the beginnig of the document to that effect , with a suggestion to use the search-and - replace facility to make the reverse change , as well as the table of change and sample . feel free to edit ( and / or translate ) what follow if you wish to make the note shorter by include only what be pertinent for a give language . | a . model of a note :
