Subject: summary : elvis in latin

content - length : 4142 on march 3 , 1995 , i post a query regard a cd of elvi presley song in latin . i be now in receipt of the cd , which the record company , viihdesallap / stop record of jyva " skylum " , finland , be kind enough to send me simply in response to the query i post on this list . before describe the cd , i would like to cite the follow message i receive from hannele dufva of the language centre for finnish university of the university of jyva " skylum " : ) dear professor toop , ) the legend live forever in latin be record by doctor ammondt alias ) associate professor jukka ammondt work at the dept . of literature , ) university of jyva " skylum " , finland . the cd be produce by stop record ) ( sr-103 ) ( tel : + 358-41 - 66771 ; fax : + 358-41 - 773 ) but i call jukka and he ) tell me that a contract with k - tel international be be negotiate and ) that the record will probably be available on american market very soon . ) k - tel international finland ( fax . + 358 - 0-790653 ) will also probably ) answer any inquiry . the lyric be , by the way , translate into latin ) by teiva oksalum , the professor of the latin department , also famous for ) his broadcast of news in latin . i hear that he be also go to attempt ) at try his talent as sport commentator in latin ( ! ) at an ice hockey ) match . hope you will be able to get the cd ! please do n't hesitate to ) contact me for further information . ) hannele dufva ) language centre for finnish university ) university of jyva " skylum " ) p . o . box 35 ) 40351 jyva " skylum " ) dufva @ tukkus . jyu . fus ) fax : + 358-41 - 603521 have listen to the cd several time now , i be very favorably im - press both by the quality of the lyric and by the quality of the instrumentation . most north american instructor of latin , i believe , will be please to learn that the pronunciation use by the vocalist , dr . ( jukka ) ammondt , be virtually identical to the reconstruct " classic " pronunciation teach in north american school and not that of church latin . / c / and / g / be regularly pronounce as velar and be not palatalize or " soften " to - ch - and - dzh - before front vowel as they be in ( italian ) church latin . practically the only deviation from north american classroom pronunciation be the monoph - thongization of - ae - and - oe - , which ammondt pronounce as long / e : / ( or even / a " / ) , rather than as / aus / and / ous / , resp . v - be regularly pronounce as a bilabial glide / w / , although at time it approach a bilabial fricative in ammond 's pronounciation ; the same hold true of the glide element in - qu . ammondt occasionally produce a slightly retroflex-sound / s / , but , in any case , it be never voice to / z / even intervocalically . i be able to discern only one instance of finnish interference in ammondt 's pronunciation : in one song , one occurrence of the word " dic " be clearly mispronounce / tik / . the cd contain 7 track total 21 min . 46 sec . : i . surrender / nunc aeternitati ii . it 's now or never / nunc hic aut numquam iii . can't help falle in love / non adamare non possum iv . it 's impossible / impossibile v . wooden heart / cor ligneum vi . love me tender / tenere me ama vii . the wing of dream / ala somnius the last track ( vii . , above ) be sing mostly in strongly accent english . it may have be better to keep the lyric all in latin . i be not provide with information of form of payment the record company in jyva " skylum " , finland , be able to accept . i would assume that a mere credit card number ( e . g . , visa , mastercard ) would suffice to purchase one of these cds , the price of which , accord to the custom label on the envelope in which mine be mail , be 90 finnish markka . again , to order cd # sr-103 , write , call , or fax : viihdesallap , ltd . / stop record p . o . box 252 sf-40101 jyva " skylum " finland ph : + 358 41-666 - 771 fx : + 358 41-666 - 773 gary h . toop toops @ twsuvm . uc . twsu . edu associate professor ph : ( 316 ) 689-3180 wichita state university fx : ( 316 ) 689-3293 wichita , kansa 67260-0011 usa
