Subject: 

history of ling the magic of a common language : jakobson , mathesius , trubetzkoy , and the prague linguistic circle by jindrich toman current study in linguistics series # 26 , the mit press $ 40 hardcover available from the mit press 800 . 356 . 227 or < mitpress-order @ mit . edu > social and cultural environment , historical factor , and tenet of the prague linguistic circle . available for discussion ling semiotics tobin , yishai . invariance , markedness and distinctive feature analysis . a contrastive study of sign system in english and hebrew john benjamins xius , 402 pp . contrastive analysis hb : us : 1 55619 565 6 / eur : 90 272 3614 3 us $ 100 . 0 / hfl . 180 , - - this volume provide a new kind of contrastive analysis of two unrelate language english and hebrew base on the semiotic concept of invariance , markedness and distinctive feature theory . it concentrate on linguistic form and construction which be remarkably different in each language despite the fact that they share the same familiar classification and label . tobin demonstrate how and why traditional and modern syntactic category such as grammatical number ; verb tense , aspect , mood and voice ; conditional and interrogative ; etc . , be not equivalent across language . it be argue that these so-cal universal concept function differently in each language system because they belong to distinct language-specific semantic domain which be mark by different set of semantic feature . current issue in linguistic theory , iii socioling lippi-green , rosina ( university of michigan , ann arbor ) . language ideology and language change in early modern german . a sociolinguistic study of the consonantal system of nuremberg john benjamins xiv , 150 pp . sociolinguistics hb : us : 1 55619 573 7 / eur : 90 272 3622 4 us $ 48 . 0 / hfl . 85 , - - this quantitative study , base on a computerize corpus of text write by five man in early 16th - century nuremberg , employ multivariate glm statistical procedure to analyze the way linguistic , social and stylistic factor work individually and in interaction to influence variation observe in the text . the study provide evidence that consonantal variation in early modern write text be not random . of particular importance be the quantification of an individual 's relationship to an emerge ideology of language standardization , and the way that relationship interact with write language variation . current issue in linguistic theory , 119 .
