Subject: sum : singapore english

content - length : 4261 a couple of week ago , i ask the follow question : ) many people would not regard s ' pore english as a " native " english . ) however , there be many speaker here who grow up speak ) english , ) ie acquire english as their first language ; though certainly it may be a ) somewhat different variety from the english speak in britain or ) america . ) in this respect , what be the currently accept way of classify ) singapore english ? in particular , be it possible to say that it be not a ) native language give that some people have it as their first ) language ? three respondant believe that singapore english should be regard as " native " if it be the first language learn ; while three other suggest " native " have other connotation or suggest other term for the english of singapore . thus anthea fraser gupta say : i strongly feel that the term " native language " should be use to refer to the language ( s ) an individual first learn , and that any other definition , base on race , on ancestral language use , or geographical origin , be untenable . debbie ziegeler agree with this view : most people i believe would classify a first language as a native language ( = mother tongue ) , and i think this be what anthea gupta have in mind when she say that english in singapore now have native speaker , and that approximately 20 % of singapore 's income schoolchildren have english as a native language and ms . faridah hudson say : i believe that any language that be learn by a child as its first language should be consider as the native language . grant that singapore english be not as well study as british or american english , it be still a form of english . on the other hand , wen - chao li claim suggest that " native " do not just refer to the linguistic experience of the individual : i think the word " native " here refer not to whether or not people speak the variety as a native language , but be just a convenient label use to distinguish the english of britain and the us , where the language originate ( " native " in this sense ) , from the english of place like singapore , indium , and many country in africa , where although english be widely speak as a native language , it be a language that have transplant another in the last 200 year , a language that be introduce rather than one that 's be culturally and historically " native " . mario cal varelum suggest the use of the term " localize form of english " for new variety such as that of singapore : the expression " localize form of english " be often use . . . to refer to variety of english that have develop peculiar characteristic ( nativize feature ) because of be use in cultural setting different from the so-cal native english . and rodrik wade prefer " new english " : a term that be popularise , if not introduce by platt , weber and ho ( 1984 ) for se and other similar variety of english be ' new english ' . i have use this term when write about south african black english although as yet this variety have few l1 speaker . i would like to thank all these respondant , as well as alan firth and benny lee for their useful reference and umberto for his question about the pronunciation involve . special thanks to my mentor david deterd for introduce me to the list and for help me out with this summary . kia - sheng chew national technological university singapore 91a26936217f @ nievax . nie . ac . sg
