Subject: humanity compute position at ceth

the center for electronic text in the humanity ( ceth ) be seek a humanities compute specialist . please see the position description below . susan hockey director , center for electronic text in the humanity humanities computing specialist center for electronic text in the humanity responsibilities : develop and maintain information service for center , include world wide web server , newsletter , and plan series of guide to electronic text resource and application . provide research support for humanities compute and electronic text on a national basis . give presentation and seminar on electronic text in the humanities . coordinate electronic text center at rutger university include supervision of student assistant . assist participant at ceth summer seminar . qualifications : strong background in the humanities with phd prefer . experience with computer application in humanities research require , with at least two year prefer . read knowledge of some foreign language prefer . knowledge of tei sgml and experience with internet , pcs ( dos and window ) , macintosh and unix prefer . good oral and write communication skill require . salary : negotiable , dependent upon experience and qualification , for a grant fund appointment equivalent to assistant professor rank ; possibility of renewal . status / benefits : faculty status , non-tenure track , calendar year appointment , tiaa / cref pension , life / health insurance , prescription drug , dental and eyeglass plan , tuition remission , one month vacation . center profile : the center for electronic text in the humanity ( ceth ) be sponsor jointly by rutger , the state university of new jersey and princeton university . the center 's administrative headquarters be locate in the archibald steven alexander library , the main humanities and social science research library of rutger on the college avenue campus in new brunswick , new jersey . ceth act as a national focus for the creation , dissemination and use of electronic text in the humanities with emphasis on scholarly application and primary source material . ceth 's activity include an inventory of electronic text in the humanity , research into method of provide internet access to collection of sgml - encode material in the humanities , an international summer seminar on method and tool for electronic text in the humanities and general information service for humanities compute . ceth be also develop associate project in partnership with other institution and research group . a consortium of member institution be plan to start in july 1995 . ceth be support in part by the national endowment for the humanity and the andrew w . mellon foundation . to apply : resume receive no later than april 10 , 1995 will receive first consideration . submit resume , cover letter , and name of three referee to : sandra troy ( app . 112 ) library personnel officer rutger university library 169 college avenue new brunswick , nj 08903 fax # 908-932 - 7637 rutger , the state university of new jersey uphold a commitment to affirmative action and equal opportunity .
