Subject: isfc95 computational section

announcement - - - - - - - - - - - - computational section / workshop at the 22nd international systemic - functional congress beij , china 18-22 july 1995 the involvement of systemic functional linguistic in computational application have grow to a point at which it would be beneficiary to take stock of the various ongo activity . there be a number of interest problem that arise if one use systemic functional theory for natural language process ( nlp ) . the goal of the section be to give researcher use systemic functional theory ( or aspect of it ) for nlp application a chance to talk about issue of common interest , introduce their approach to particular problem and ( perhap ) work out solution together . the idea be to organize the section as a mixture of talk and extensive discussion . if it turn out that there be some really burning issue , it be also possible to have workshop tailor to particular topic . if you be interest in participate - please fill in the attach form and e-mail it back to me ( teich @ darmstadt . gmd . de ) . - if you want to give a talk or introduce a topic for discussion or for a workshop , please e-mail an abstract of about 1 - 2 page to me ( teich @ darmstadt . gmd . de ) . the abstract should include a title , your name and affiliation , a list of reference and an indication of what it be intend as ( talk , topic for discussion or workshop ) . please send the abstract also , if you have already send an abstract to the general call for papers of isfc95 . also , if you can think of anybody else who would be interest in participate , please forward this mail to them . the deadline for submission and suggestion be the 15th of february 1995 . for general information about the conference please send mail to : egterenc @ hkpcc . hkp . hk - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - name : affiliation : address ( inlcude e-mail ) : topics i work on : topics i would like to discuss : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
