Subject: 200

summary on reduplication a month before christmas ( in linguist vol-5 - 1354 ) i send out a query about * reduplication * and how this strategy be grammaticalize in language to convey some facet of * intensification * . this be a summary base on the 45 reply i receive from linguist netter . allow me to thank you all collectively now , since i will not be refer to single respondent in the follow discussion . the topic of reduplication interest me because i be write on my phd on repetition with respect to intensification and iconicity in swedish . the point of departure in the original query be the claim find in lakoff & johnson ( metaphor we live by ; 1980 ) accord to which reduplication may indicate : - plural or collective - intensification or increase - continuation or completion - diminution thus , ' more ' of physical linguistic ' form ' correspond to ' more ' in the ' content ' of the reduplicate expression as oppose to a non-reduplicate form - - as an instance of diagrammatic iconicity ( or as a realization of the * conduit * metaphor in the term of lakoff & johnson ) . there be reflection of the outline principle in colloquial english in expression like ' an old old man ' , ' the music get louder and louder ' , 's he talk talk talk ' , ' the ball bounce and bounce ' , ' there 's form form form form ' , ' it be sink down down ' , etc . i originally mention , however , that these structure be * mark * in a language like english . the choice of word be perhap not so lucky . what i mean by " mark " be that even if we may think that such expression be frequent in casual speech , they be rare in more constrain context . a less mark way of intensify would probably be to use a specific intensifier or quantifier , e . g . ' a very old man ' , ' talk a lot ' . i hope no one will be offend by this simplistic analysis , it be only lead us a bite beside the point . ( for a comprehensive account on " repetition in english " , see persson 1974 , univ . of uppsalum , sw . ) i be in my query more after pointer to and example of language where reduplication as a means of * intensification * be an integrate , so to speak , a standard characteristic of the grammar . this be also , more or less , what i get . i will summarize the outcome in the follow ; i be aware of that in most instance the " fact " be probably subject to qualification , but for the sake of clarity & brevity i will lay the example ahead in a rather list-like manner . furthermore , the example certainly represent only a sample of the language in the world that have incorporate reduplication in their system . note that i have leave out - - in order to make it all more illustrative - - possible tone mark and diacritic of the transliteration . 1 . plural or collective * in malay / bahasa ( indonesium ) , full word reduplication turn singular to plural : anak ' child ' anak-anak ' child ' * in nahuatl ( or " aztec " ) , prefix reduplication with noun convey a plural mean : cih-tlus ' hare ' ( where ' cih - ' be the stem ) cus : cih-tlus pl . - - moreover , there be no structurally distinct adjective in nahuatl but certain " adjectival " suffix that can take on a plural notion vium reduplication : - pi : l diminutive suffix - pipus : l plural * hausa be cite to have reduplication in the formation of plural of a limit set of noun . * in japanese , reduplication may turn a noun to a collective , but the scope of this strategy be say to be marginal : hito ' person ' hitobito ' people ' kamus ' god ' kamigamus ' god ' * in mandarin ( chinese ) , reduplication turn singular to collective ( but this be say to be rare ) : ren ' person ' renren ' people ' - - moreover , both in mandarin and cantonese * classifier * item may be reduplicate to convey " universal quantification " in contrast to more unique reference . this fit readily in the notion of intensification ( or augmentation ) : ge ren ' a person ' ( mandarin ) ge ge ren ' every person ' douh ' place , there ' ( cantonese ) douh-douh ' everywhere ' * dakotan pattern plural of stative intransitive verb with reduplication . this be say only to apply to instance with inanimate subject though . north american language in general may be of interest when consider reduplication but i be short of example at present . follow language be mention in the reply , though : klamath , nez perce , sahaptin . 2 . intensification or increase * mandarin chinese intensify adjective with reduplication : xiao 's mall ' xiaoxiao ' very small ' gaox ' happy ' gaogaoxingx ' very happy ' as you notice , with disyllabic adjective the reduplication pattern be aabb . - - cantonese also use reduplication for augmentation or emphasis . * turkish be , apparently , a point in case . reduplication of adjective indicate intensification or increase in the follow way : temiz ' clean ' tertemiz ' very clean ' dolu ' full ' dopdolu ' very full ' bo ' empty ' bosbo ' completely empty ' here we have prefix reduplication accompany with a bind consonant . interestingly , there do not seem to be " rule " for which bind consonant should be insert in a give case . * hausa be cite to use reduplication in the intensification of adjective . * celtic language have full word reduplication to indicate intensification . the method be reminiscent of the case of english , but it may be more " integrate " in the grammar of the celtic ( be there any opinion about this ? ) . could the celtic model have influence germanic language so that we still today have rather similar reduplication in the colloquial register ( just my own modest idea . . . ) ? here be some example provide by netter : - - welsh : ty bach bach ' a very small house ' oglau cryf cryf ' a very strong smell ' - - gaelic : fada fada ' very long ' trua trua ' very pity ' - - breton : braz-braz ' very tall ' this be say to be common especially in negative sentence . * in colloquial russian reduplication / repetition of adj 's / adv 's have likewise an intensify function . the use be probably stylistically similar to repetition in colloquial english , but it be say to be limit to * predicate * adjective : belyj-belyj ' very white ' tixo-tixo ' very quietly ' * it be also point that finnish have prefix reduplication in some intensify adjectival form . this be true , indeed , but - - what it seem - - wholly lexicalize and non-productive . in any case , here be some example i and my colleague enjoy come up with : taysus ' full ' ( umlaut a ) tapo-taysus ' completely full ' ( uml . a 's & o ) tyhja ' empty ' ( uml . a ) typo-tyhja ' compl . empty ' ( uml . a 's & o ) puhda ' clean ' puti-puhda ' compl . clean ' uusus ' new ' upo-uusus ' brand new ' pinta 's urface ' piri-pinta ' right on the surface ' suomalainen ' finnish ' supi-suomalainen ' purely finnish ' yksin ' alone ' ypo-yksin ' compl . alone ' ( uml . o ) tiessaan ' lose ' ( uml . a 's ) tipo-tiessaan ' compl . lose ' ( uml . a 's & o ) the prefix item ' tapo ' , ' typo ' , ' tipo ' , 's upus ' , ' putus ' , ' pirus ' , ' upo ' , ' ypo ' do not seem to mean anything , at least for the speaker today . it seem that the first vowel or the pair first consonant & vowel of the stem be reduplicate with a bind syllable that most often have a ' p ' and a vowel , e . g . : ta-po - taysus , ty-po - tyhja , u-po - uusus , y-po - yksin could this have be productive in some earlier stage of the language ? * finally , in classical ( only ? ) greek a small number of * verb * may have reduplication to communicate some sort of intensify , expressive or affective notion : pam-phain - eus ' it shine brightly ' ( ( * phan-phan - j-eus ) 3 . continuation or completion reduplication be , evidently , often use in the formation of present , progressive or perfective . i take here the view that present or progressive form combine with * continuation * , wherea perfective form communicate * completion * . it be nice to discover that " classical " linguistic tradition can offer fit datum here . it feel appropriate to begin with these example . - - - * in sanskrit , the perfect stem be form by reduplication : budh - ' know ' bubodh - perf . jan - ' bear ' jajan - perf . aorist ( ' true perfect ' ) root may also be form by a kind of reduplication : jan - ajijana - ( aor . ) in addition , present stem may be form by reduplication : bhius - 'd rink ' bibhius - pre . * classical greek use partial reduplication , i . e . prefixation of the initial consonant of a verb plus the vowel ' e ' , in stem for perfect tense : le-lu - k-a ' i have free ' pe-poie : - k-a ' i have make ' ge-grap - taus ' it have be write ' if the root begin with a vowel , the vowel be augment . furthermore , some common verb take reduplication in their * present * tense ; the initial consonant be reduplicate with the vowel ' i ' : di-do : - mi ' i give / be give ' gi-gno - maus ' i be become ' ti-the : - mi ' i be place ' ( ( * thi-the : - mi ) * in latin , perfect form may involve reduplication : curro ' run ' cucurrus perf . - - - let us then go over to more live language . * in hausa , reduplication apply to verb in two different way express completion or continuity respectively . modify suffix reduplication give an idea of * complete * action : cika ' fill ' cikakke compl . jefa ' throw ' jefaffe compl . prefix reduplication communicate " something like continuity " , as express by the respondent : buga ' beat ' bubbuga ' keep on beat ' kira ' call ' kikkira ' call various people ' * in tagalog ( philippine ) , reduplication distinguish * imperfective * action from perfective : bilus root of ' buy ' bibilus irreali imperfective upo root of 's it ' uupo irr . imp . kuha root of ' get ' kukuha irr . imp . some scholar call irreali perfective * complete * aspect and irreali imperfective * contemplate * aspect . this make sense , since irreali imperfective ' bibilus ' seem to translate to ' will buy ' . * in wailevu / fijian ( austronesium ) , reduplication be use in so call " object defocus " that involve repetition of the action and a progressive marker : au xau-ta na agone ' i carry the child ' au xau-xau jixo ' i ' m carry now ' au dola-va na xaatuba ' i open the window ' au dola-dolum jixo ' i ' m open now ' moreover , in this language adjective may be derive from verb through reduplication . even if note to be " not productive " , the process be fascinate : sava-ta ' wash - tr ' sava-sava - a ' clean ' the adjective could be understand to represent * complete * action , the result , in a way very similar to how the perfect participle work in , say , germanic : she have wash the cloth . - - ) a wash cloth * in nahuatl ( " aztec " ) , reduplication may affect the mean of a verb in several way . - - an action carry out in a " systematic " ( progressive ? ) way : tequus base for ' to slice ' or ' to hack ' te : tequus 's louse / carve something ' cho : ca ' weep ' cho : cho : ca ' weep continuously ' - - of the same base verb , an action carry out in a " random " ( involve repetition ? ) way : tehtequus ' hack something up ' chohcho : ca ' to sob ' - - furthermore , reduplication may be recursive ( e . g . of ' weep continuously ' & 's ob ' respectively ) : cho : cho : cho : ca chohchohcho : ca - - verb with certain morphologic characteristic may take on reduplication to indicate * repeat action * : tzilus : nus ' make a metallic sound ' tzttzilica ' jingle ' tzitzilitza ' make something jingle ' * in afrikaans , reduplication apply to some verb seem give a progressive idea : hy loop eet-eet ' he eat continuously while walk ' 4 . diminution there be not many example of * diminution * in the total of reply . in a sense , the process of " make something smaller " could possibly go under the more general strategy of * intensification or increase * ( although it be literally about " decrease " ) . nevertheless , there be a couple of possibly fit case : * cantonese may use reduplication to convey * diminution * or * moderation * . * it be point that english ( ! ) have some " diminutive " reduplication in formation like ' itsy-bitsy ' , ' eensie - weensie ' , ' teeny-tiny ' . these carry the content ' very small ' , but they belong merely to the child-speak register . in any case , the example be diagnostic of the diminutive case . 5 . other there be use of reduplication that go beyond the suggest four category above . with some restraint , some of these could perhap be see as slight offspring of the more general principle of mark * plurality * . i do not go into detail example but mention some most common semantic category : - - distributive reduplication : presuppose two or more referent that be take separately ( type : ' one by one ' ) - - reflexive notion go naturally hand in hand with distributive ( type : ' one another ' ) - - the so call * delimitative aspect * , i . e . 'd oe something for a while ' , in mandarin and cantonese do not at first seem to fit in * continuity * or * completion * . however , the semantics of the delimitative aspect be say to encompass " imply repetition " : tai-taus ' take a look at ' ( cant . ) chang-chang ' have a taste ' ( man . ) shi-shus ' have a go ' ( man . ) what would seem logical to me be that a casual , temporally short action like ' take a look ' reach its termination quicker than standard ' look ' . i do n't know if this kind of an implicit sense of " rapid completion " could be the motivation of this reduplication ? - - - then there be numerous instance of reduplication that communicate * contrastive emphasis * . these do not necessarily combine with the above functional category at all . the motivation of such reduplication be merely to * make a point * clearer . the ( american ) english " double " be a seemingly nice example of this : shall we rend a car car , or would you rather have a jeep ? of course , emphasis be a sort of * intensification * and , thus , it touch the theme of our discussion . * * * * now i think it 's time to close this rather lengthy summary . thank for read it . if you would like to add something to the discussion - - like comment on my suggestion - - , feel free to e-mail ( or snailmail ) the " stuff " directly to me . ( for literature , see below ) all the best for 1995 , - jan . jan lindstrom dept . of scandinavian language pb 4 12 helsinkus university finland - - - literature in the end , i will give some bibliographic hint that be point to me ( sorry , the order be random ) : martin , samuel e . 1988 . a reference grammar of japanese . tuttle . taus , jame . 1993 . iconicity : motivation in chinese grammar . in principle and prediction : the analysis of natural language , ed . by mushira eid & gregory iverson . benjamin . 153-174 . whitney , william dwight . 1896 . a sanskrit grammar . ( e . g . ) harvard university press . carnochan , j . c . 1957 . gemination in hausa . in study in linguistic analysis , special vol . of the philological society . blackwell . schachter & otane . 1972 . grammar of tagalog . university of californium . moravcsik , edith a . 1978 . reduplicative construction . in universal of human language , vol . 3 . word structure . ed . by j . h . greenberg et al . stanford university press . 297-334 . davi , stuart . 1988 . on the nature of internal reduplication . in hammond & noonan ( ed . ) , theoretical morphology : approach in modern linguistics . academic press . 305-323 . li & thompson . mandarin chinese : a functional reference grammar . ( eg . pp . 28-36 ) newman , paul . 1989 . reduplicate noun in hausa . journal of african language and linguistics vol 8 nr 2 ( oct . ) . 115-132 . matthew & yip . 1994 . cantonese : a comprehensive grammar . routledge .
