Subject: t

thank to everyone who respond to my question about latex font and use linux in general . respondent be : jen hay ( jennifer . hay @ vuw . ac . nz ) mark hale ( hale1 @ husc . harvard . edu ) greg iverson ( iverson @ csd . uwm . edu ) " jame a . mcgilvray " ( jim @ dep . philo . mcgill . ca ) michael covington ( mcovingt @ aus . uga . edu ) jame magnuson ( magnuson @ hip . atr . co . jp ) ulus sauerland ( sauerlan @ mit . edu ) tom green ( tmgreen @ mit . edu ) " larry trask " ( larryt @ cog . susx . ac . uk ) ted . hard @ nessie . mcc . ac . uk ( ted hard ) " c . a . creider " ( creider @ julian . uwo . ca ) mark liberman ( myl @ sansom . ling . upenn . edu ) first of all , the response clearly indicate that there exist at least two ipa font for latex ( see below ) . response to my more general question rang from enthusiastic encouragement about use latex and linux , to fervernt wish that i rethink my abandonment of the macintosh os , to recommendation of other operate system and / or text-process or dsp system . i should perhap have mention that i be already relatively familiar with bsd unix , so switch to linux will not be much of a shock in and of itself - though obviously use latex will be quite a change from a mac - base word processor . . . the score be currently : pro latex w / ipa : 7 pro linux : 4 pro mac : 1 pro nextstep : 1 antus latex : 1 and a number of somewhat mix response , suggest for the most part that i remain with a mac for text process , but work with some kind of unix environment for dsp and datum process , or that i stick with a mac for the actual sound manipulation but switch to linux for everything else . re : dsp there be at least two recommendation for signalyze for the macintosh , and two for ogi-tools for unix system . some select quote ( anonymously to discourage os partisanship from seep into real life ) : " i thoroughly recommend switch to latex . " " i ' m run a linux box and use latex for all professional word - process these day . . . i have n't find anything i can't do yet . " " i ' ll say this for linux , compare to dos , window , os / 2 , desqview , and window nt ( latest version of all ) , i ' ve be run linux for a year and a half and it have never once crash . never . every one of those other have . " " gee , i hope switch from a macintosh to a linux workstation be n't too painful . . . do you really have to do this ( power macintosh machine be indeed powerful , and the word process situation be well develop with wordperfect 3 . 1 , nisus writer 4 . 6 , other ) . " " while on the topic of unix instantiation of tex , you may look at nextstep instead of linux . . . next 's gui be , honestly , elegant . " " there be several good ipa font set for latex , as well as a whole bunch of accent available even if you do n't use special font . " " i use latex ( both on linux and on other unix ) for all my papers and there be a couple good package of phonetic symbol font that work great with latex . " " first of all , i dislike latex intensely , as do most of my colleague in linguistics . we find it uniquely user-hostile : basically , you can't change any default unless you have a degree in hack . . . on the whole , then , my advice be to stay away from latex . " " i be a linux user , and can assure you that latex and all sort of extension work very well with linux . so if you can find the linguistic tool for latex you should be able to use them with linux . " i have also have a few request that i share the information regard where to find latex ipa font : there be apparently at least two , maybe more . one be call tsipa and be from japan . another be call wsuipa , and be from washington state university . one other person mention a font set from waterloo , but do not give more detail . tsipa be available at ftp . shsu . edu in tex-archive / font / tsipa a couple people mention the tex - for-linguist newsgroup , at listserv @ shsu . edu , but this may no longer be run . there be also a tex newsgroup , comp . text . tex for more info . thank again to all the people who respond so quickly . i be go to give the linux / latex system a shoot , and see what i can make of it . - alex afranci @ midway . uchicago . edu alex franci ( 312 ) - 667-5432 department of linguistic afranci @ midway . uchicago . edu university of chicago ( 312 ) 667-5432 ( home ) 1010 e . 59th st . ( 312 ) 702-9861 ( ling . dept . fax ) chicago , il 60637 ( 312 ) 702-7045 ( lang . lab )
