Subject: 

syntax marcus maium . the comprehension of object anaphora in brazilian portuguese . usc . 1994 . distribute by gsil publication , usc . this thesis examine the comprehension of the empty category and the third person lexical pronoun in object position in brazilian portuguese ( bp ) . experimental result show that the process of bp overt and nonovert object be consistent with the lead idea underlie the overt pronoun constraint ( opc ) propose by montalbettus ( 84 ) . experiment 1 compare the process of overt pronoun and empty category in object position in bp in structure in which these anaphor be a - bind by a subject and in structure in which they be a - bar-bound by a topic . result from 48 bp speaker indicate reactivation of the antecedent only by topic-bound gap and by subject-bound overt pronoun in experiment 2 , the difference between the coreferential v . bind reading in bp be further investigate by compare the possibility of the strict and sloppy reading for the overt pronoun and the gap in object position . base on these experimental result , we argue for the classification of the bp null object as an instance of a null epithet , an empty r - expression with pronominal property . the experiment be also informative with relation to several theoretical psycholinguistic issue . for more information , please contact gsil publication gsil @ scf . usc . edu south asian langs pan-asiatic linguistics : proceeding of the third international symposium on language and linguistic . chulalongkorn university , bangkok , thailand . 8-10 january 1992 . 1482 pp . ( 3 vol . ) . us $ 53 . 0 ( cloth ) include postage by airmail . the set contain 118 papers present at the symposium . the papers deal with language speak in every part of asium with emphasis on southeast asian language . area cover be phonetic , phonology , morphology , syntax , diachronic study , sociolinguistic , language contact , typology , neurolinguistic , psycholinguistic , and natural language process . available from wholesale department , university bookstore , chulalongkorn university , phyathaus road , bangkok 10330 , thailand . ( bank draft or international money order only . )
