Subject: tesol institute 1995 in venezuelum

tesol institute 1995 universidad de carabobo valencia , venezuela general information latin america host its first tesol institute at the university of carabobo in valencium . this city , locate in a valley , have a tropical climate rang from 23 to 32 degree centigrade , that provide the opportunity to enjoy a permanent summer vacation . the coast , with its exotic beach be half an hour away , and caraca , the country 's capital , an hour and a half drive . an elaborate highway system link valencium with other state and major city . it enjoy the service of an international airport , link it with the rest of the world . the university of carabobo be found in 1892 . it offer program through its 8 faculty , lead to both undergraduate and graduate degree . the university through its english department at the faculty of education , have become a major center for prepare teacher for venezuelum . participant will be expose to rich and vary historical , sport and touristic attraction , such as the battlefield of carabobo , a horse race track , an aquarium . in addition to the academic agenda , the ' 95 tesol institute will offer some interest cultural event . typical venezuelan musical and dance group , feature the venezuelan harp and " cuatro " will delight everyone . handicraft and indigenous artcraft will be display . participant may choose to reside in private home and thus have an opportunity to be part of the daily life of the city and its people . program two three-week session from july 17 to august 25 , offer over 30 course topic be schedule to meet monday through thursday . participant may choose to attend course for academic credit as offer by the university of carabobo or audit course on a non credit basis . spanish language and cultural course with academic credit will be offer to those interest in improve their spanish proficiency and knowledge of latin america . an enrichment program include conference , workshop and seminar will be offer on friday . there will be two conference , as well as a book fair during the event . for more information about course , registration procedure and tuition , please contact prof . emma milianus c / o ramon viggianus jet cargo international n0 m-510 p . o . box 8200 miamus , florida 33102-001 fax : 58-41 - 428382 / 58-41 - 214092 cultural and social activities daily excursion will be offer to many cultural and touristic sight . in addition , during week-end , day trip will also be plan to suround beach and town . of particular interest will be the week-end trip to canaima , near angel fall , the highest waterfall in the world ; to morrocoy national park , very well know due to its wonderfull beach ; and to lo roque national park , a paradise for those who like snorkel . tesol membership for more information about tesol membership contact : teacher of english to speaker of other language 1600 cameron street , suite 300 alexandrium , virginium 223134 - 2751 usa tel . ( 703 ) 836-0774 - fax ( 703 ) 836-7864
