Subject: job - - c / lisp , kr , nl : austin , tx

cycorp be seek enthusiastic , highly-motivate multi-talent people for position in software development , ontological engineer , and natural language process . each of these involve work with and extend the cyc technology - - an immense , broad , multi-contextual knowledge base and inference engine which our group have develop over the last eleven year . cyc already contain a useful selection of fundamental human knowledge : fact , rule of thumb , and heuristic for reason about the object and event of modern everyday life . cyc enable a multitude of knowledge-intensive product and service which could revolutionize the way in which people use and interact with computer , and cycorp be dedicate to make this happen . to date , cyc have make possible ground-break pilot application in the area of heterogeneous database browse and integration , caption image retrieval , and natural language process . we be look for a few individual to join us in this challenge enterprise . software development ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - o c application program expertise ( unix , macintosh , pc ) o preferably some common lisp program experience o database theory and application development ( oracle , db2 ) o formal logic ( predicate calculus ) and deductive theorem prove o inference engine design , implementation , and maintenance ontological engineer ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - o facility with formal logic ( predicate calculus ) o preferably some background in ai , esp . knowledge representation o program ability be a plus , but not require natural language process ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - o familiarity with nl parse theory ( include statistical and / or corpus-base parse method and other method ) o experience in design , build , and extend parser o facility with predicate calculus , and some knowledge of mathematical method in linguistics o familiarity with linguistic theory , esp . morphology and syntax ; knowledge of pragmatic and / or discourse theory a plus o ability to think procedurally and concretely ( thus , program skill would be a plus ) for immediate consideration , send your resume and a cover letter to : doug lenat cycorp , inc . 3500 west balcone center drive austin , texa 78759 fax : 512-338 - 3858 e-mail : doug @ cyc . com cycorp be an equal opportunity employer
