Subject: job post

university of tuebingen department of linguistics division of computational linguistics research position for a computational linguist we be advertise a research position in the verbmobil project , which be fund by the german ministry for education and research ( bmbf ) . verbmobil be concern with the development of a portable speech-to - speech translation system for " face-to - face " - communication . the verbmobil - subproject at the department of computational linguistic in tuebingen be concern with semantic evaluation and transfer for machine translation between german and english , in particular : - the semantic repraesentation , disambiguation and translation of temporal expression - the semantic repraesentation , disambiguation and translation of complex word - the computational model of these empirical domain , and - and the implementation of a work subsystem of verbmobil in collaboration with other verbmobil site . candidate should have experience in computational linguistics ( particularly in unification-base formalism ) or computer science . knowledge of german and experience in machine traslation , nl - syntax / semantic ( particularly in head - drive phrase structure grammar , discourse representation theory and in the semantics of tense and aspect ) , logic , or prolog - program be highly desirable . the successful candidate will be expect to work both on theoretical issue and practical implementation . the project start in 1993 and will last until december 1996 , with the possibility of extension depend on fund . the successful candidate would be expect to take up the position as soon as possible . the position be at the rank of " wissenschaftlicher mitarbeiter " ( salary on the german payscale of bat iia ; minimum of 65 0 dm per year ) . application should include cv and an outline of research experience and interest . name and address of reference would be helpful . application should be send by mail or email to the address below . application receive by july 15th , 1995 will receive full consideration . prof . dr . erhard w . hinrich seminar fuer sprachwissenschaft abt . computerlinguistik eberhard - karl universitaet tuebingen kleine wilhelmstr . 113 d-72074 tuebingen germany hinrich @ sf . nphil . uni-tuebingen . de
