Subject: review of arboreal for window

review of : arboreal for window , cascadillum press . by dr . matthew crocker ( mwc @ cogscus . ed . ac . uk ) centre for cognitive science , university of edinburgh . arboreal for window ( henceforth , arborwin ) be a package design to facilitate draw tree within microsoft ( tm ) window ( tm ) application . arborwin consist simply of a truetype ( tm ) font in which key be map to tree component shape character rather than standard keyboard symbol . the advantage of draw tree in this way be that arborwin be very portable , and can be use in any wysiwyg window ( tm ) application which allow you to select specific font ( i . e . most ) . the disadvantage , broadly , be that ` type-set ' or layout of the tree be leave to the user . the ` character ' of arborwin include leave , right , vertical , and ` triangle ' branch - - each of several width ( but all the same height ) . the font be also fully scalable . in general , i find that arborwin behave as intend , give that it be simply a font-base package . it most basic limitation be that there be a relatively small selection of branch size ( i . e . how narrow or wide a branch be ) . in practice , the most common problem i encounter be that ` triangle ' branch ( eg , for phrase without internal structure ) could n't be make wide enough . . . give that one often want to put fairly long phrase under these . the only way to increase the width be to increase the point size for the branch ; but this also increase the height of the particular branch , and make tree look disproportionate and inconsistent . bee font-base , however , also means it cannot attain the flexibility of alternative package ( eg , the ` tree ' package for latex ) . the ' tree ' package , for example , take as input a declarative tree specification ( as a bracket list ) and then automatically typeset the tree , and also permit cross branch , and upside-down tree . since typeset be automatic , the tree format be consistent , and tailor to the size / length of terminal ( include the triangle branch ) . overall the package be simple to use and quite effective if your requirement ( in term of both sophistication , and layout quality ) be not too demand . if greater flexibility , consistency , and quality be require , then i believe there be still no substitute for latex and its associate package . dr . matthew crocker , esrc research fellow centre for cognitive science university of edinburgh mwc @ cogscus . ed . ac . uk
