Subject: japanese / korean linguistic

the sixth annual japanese / korean linguistic conference august 8-10 , 1995 university of hawaius at manoa center for korean study auditorium cosponsor by the university of hawaius s department of east asian language and literature , department of linguistic , and center for korean study support by the korea foundation - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - preliminary conference program [ note : moderator / discussant to be announce later . ] send inquiry to professor john hae ( haig @ uhunix . uhcc . hawaius . edu ) tuesday , august 8 8 : 0 a . m . - 8 : 45 a . m . : registration 8 : 45 a . m . - 9 : 0 a . m . : welcoming remarks and announcements session 1 : phonology a 9 : 00-10 : 30 : aspiration in korean phonology mira oh , yeojoo technical college korean place & manner assimilation in optimality theory hyeonkwan cho , university of minnesota constraint in post - obstruent tensification in korean seok - cha rhee , university of illinoi at urbana - champaign 10 : 30-10 : 45 a . m . break session 2 : discourse a 10 : 45-12 : 45 : discourse - pragmatic function of sentence - initial and sentence - final use of the quotative particle in japanese makoto hayashus , university of colorado at boulder an expand concept of speakerhood in japanese discourse dina r . yoshimus , university of hawaius at manoa japanese kedo : discourse function and genre toshihide nakayama and kumiko ichihashus - nakayama , university of californium at santa barbara how seee approach know in korean , japanese , and english : an analysis of pota , miru , and see yong yae park and susan strauss university of californium at lo angele 12 : 45 - 2 : 0 lunch 2 : 0 - 3 : 0 : guest speaker un - altaic feature of the korean verb samuel e . martin , yale university 3 : 0 - 3 : 15 : break session 3 : historical linguistics a 3 : 15 - 5 : 45 : on the origin of japanese sentence particle ka and zo charle j . quinn , jr . , ohio state university the function of kakarus particle namu in heian narrative : an example from the tale of genjus j . paul warnick , ohio state university on the origin of accent register in proto - japanese alexander vovin , miamus university word - initial low register in proto - japanese moriyo shimabukuro , university of hawaius at manoa another source of m-b variation in japanese blaine erickson , university of hawaius at manoa wednesday , august 9 session 4 : semantics 8 : 30-11 : 0 : analysis of polysemous verb keedong lee , yonseus university verb lexicalization pattern in korean young - joo kim , hong - ik university on the primacy of progressive over resultative state : the case of japanese - teiru yasuhiro shiraus , university of californium at lo angele group as event - orient entity eun - joo kwak , brown university topic , focus , and strong reading in korean : information partition by phrase structure and morphology hye - won chous , stanford university 11 : 00-11 : 15 : break 11 : 15-12 : 15 : guest speaker the logic of desirability and conditional reason noriko akatsuka , university of californium at lo angele 12 : 15 - 1 : 30 : lunch session 5 : discourse b 1 : 30 - 3 : 30 : discourse determiner of referential choice in korean acquisition patricium m . clancy , university of californium at santa barbara an inquiry into the discourse manage function of a japanese particle wa : an analysis of two distinctive interpretation of the te-wa construction in japanese setsuko arita , kyushu university a cognitive account of the korean morpheme - se : a marker of semantic givenness susan strauss , university of californium at lo angele the discourse function of - myen clause in korean chang - bong lee , university of pennsylvanium 3 : 30 - 3 : 45 : break session 6 : syntax a 3 : 45 - 5 : 45 : case - theoretic account of complementizer deletion hirotaka mitomo , yokohama national university tense in the subject raise construction kaoru ohta , university of washington identify the antecedent of pro in korean and japanese young - suk lee and lizanne kaiser , yale university two type of synthetic compound and move - affix in korean chang - kon shus , harvard university 6 : 30 - 9 : 0 : dinner reception ( location to be announce ) thursday , august 10 session 7 : historical linguistics b 8 : 30-10 : 0 : kakarimusubus from a comparative perspective john whitman , cornell university evidence for pre - or proto - historic loan into japanese from a relate language of the korean peninsulum leon a . serafim , university of hawaius at manoa early chinese loanword in korean and japanese : reexamine an old problem from a modern perspective marc h . miyake , university of hawaius at manoa 10 : 10-10 : 15 : break session 8 : syntax b 10 : 15-12 : 15 : numeral classifier as adverb of quantification yukiko sasakus alam , texa a & m university opacity and subjunctive complement in japanese asako uchiborus , university of connecticut npis outside of negation scope daeho chang and hong - keun park university of southern californium asymmetry in the quantificational force of - ( n ) un in korean chang - hye han , university of pennsylvanium 12 : 15 - 1 : 30 : lunch session 9 : syntax c 1 : 30 - 3 : 0 : argument prominence of sino - korean verbal noun yunsun jung , harvard university argument structure change in benefactive construction in korean seok - hoon you , university of hawaius at manoa light verb construction and temporal construction in japanese hiroto hoshus , soas , university of london 3 : 0 - 3 : 15 : break session 10 : phonology b 3 : 15 - 5 : 15 : perception of japanese pitch accent by korean and it implication for understand phonological structure y . sukegawa , s . sato , k . maekawa , and h . chous tohoku university and national language research institute umlaut in kyungsang korean : the optimal domain theoretic account seung - hoon shin , indiana university generalize alignment and prosodic categorization in korean hyunsook kang and borim lee hanyang university and wonkwang university nn : rendaku and license paradox keiichiro suzukus , university of arizona 5 : 15 : closing remarks
