Subject: build your own calbe tv descrambler with only 7 part !

cable television descrambler - easy to make ! build your own cable television descrambler with only 7 part from radio shack for under $ 12 . 0 . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ( last minute update : " i ' ve see my letter and instruction send by individual that beside violate copy-right law , be neither respond to the customer nor provide the original , complete set of plan and instruction . please be advise you be risk your money and patience by order from individual who know nothing regard this tech / electrical matter " - - raul mendez ) build your own cable television descrambler with only 7 part from radio shack for under $ 12 . 0 . required supplies : = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 1 - radio shack mini-box ( part # 270-235 ) 1 - watt resistor . 2 . 2k - 2 . 4k ohm ( part # 271-1325 ) 1 - 75pf - 100pf variable capacitor ( special order ) 2 - f61a chassis-type connector ( part # 278-212 ) 12 " - no . 12 solid copper wire 12 " - rg59 coaxial cable tool require : screwdriver & drill . solder gun & solder ( optional ) . get all the premium movie channel , pay per view and adult entertainment channel for . . . free , free , free ! ! ! now , if i have your attention . . . let me tell you how this fantastic opportunity come about . my name be raul . i live in new york city , new york . i have season ticket to our city s hockey team . i invite a friend of mine to one of the game this last october . he say , " i d love to go if you can have me back home by 10 : 0 p . m . " i tell him that some game run just past 10 : 0 p . m . and would he mind we stay if the game be close . hbe response be , " no , tonight be the mike tyson - evander holyfield box match and i have it on pay per view " i say , " do you mind if i watch the fight with you " ? he say , " sure , no problem " . so we go watch this great fight on cable pay per view and we be the only two guy at my friend house . after the fight ( since it be so good ) i offer to pay half of the cost for the fight . my friend answer be , " no , no , that s not necessary . . . i get the fight for free ! " . i say to him , " for free , don t those fight cost around $ 40 . 0 a pop ? " he tell me , " yes , they do , but i buy a cable descrambler box from an acquaintance of mine for $ 300 . 0 " . he further explain that this " little black box " get all the pay per view event available ! it also tune in all the premium movie channel and all the adult entertainment channel . my response ( without hesitation ) be , " i gotta have one ! " " $ 300 . 0 , no problem where do i pay ! ! ! " i m serious , i be excite . lifetime premium movie channel , pay per view and adult entertainment all for a one-time fee of $ 300 . 0 . . . no way ! ! ! " no way " be right . the guy that sell my buddy the box be no where to be find . i be really disappoint . it be now time for desperate measure . i beg and plead with my friend until he agree to let me take his box apart piece by piece to see how to make one for myself . luckily it be very easy , if it wasn t simple i know their be a slight chance it be not go back together so pretty . now the rest be history . . . i ve get my own box which i build with my own two hand . would you like to build one yourself ? ! ? ! if so , would you pay $ 300 . 0 . maybe so , maybe not . probably not , unless you see one work first . but since that be not possible , i will sell you a complete set of instruction on how to build one yourself for a measly $ 12 . 0 . however , at that price you must also enclose a # 10 self addressed stamped envelope with 55 cents postage affixed . you may ask , be this some type of rip-off scam deal . the answer be no ! everythe have specific mechanic of how and why they do what they do . we be just use to flip a switch or push a button or move the mouse across our computer pad . it all happen because of a certain set of process . the cable television descrambler be no different . however , for legal purpose i must add to this letter that this offer and set of instruction shall be void where prohibit by law and the assemble of part necessary to make this " little jewel " work be for educational purpose only . to order a set of the instruction send $ 12 . 0 by cash , check or money order payable to : raul mendez enterprise , 50 lexington av suite 209 , new york city , ny 10010 i will mail your order out within 24 hour of receive it . further , i will give you a refund upon write request if you be unsatisfy for any reason . happy holiday ! ! ! sincerely , raul mendez p . s . : the use of this mini-box if you choose to go on and see if your creation work require no alteration of your exist cable system . you simply screw it in , right behind your television . p . p . s . : without the instruction it s like figure out how to set the clock on your vcr . with the instruction , you be guarantee success .
