Subject: secret of the internet

make million - secret of the internet ye . i be go to reveal in detail and with internetlink all of the secret of the internet that can make you rich - rich - rich . this be a result of year of research . my research . day and night until the wee hour of the morn search and compile datum . i know that some people be get rich use the internet for relatively little investment . now i know how . i be will to share it with you but that can change at any moment . frankly , many people be try to shut me down . and i be get a little wear from it all . so get this info while you can . why be i not keep these secret to myself and use them to make million . in fact , i be use them at this time and that be how i know that they work . i be make them available to you because no one else will and that create a business opportunity for me . simple as that . if you feel nervous about invest a few dollar to make million then simply do not do it . enough say . $ 19 . 95 - make million - secret of the internet - part one * * * how to setup a web server on your home pc for free * * * the first step to make million on the internet be to setup your own web server so you can host your site and send and receive email with the least interference . i show you how to get free web server software and how to control your site remotely and keep it up all the time without expensive equipment . i will show you how to make your home computer into a cash generate internet storefront . $ 99 . 95 - make million - secret of the internet - part two ( include part one ) * * * how to market to million of internet user thru 20 , 0 new group * * * the second step to make million on the internet be to have the proper software and the proper method to use the news group to market your product . if you attempt to use your browser to access news group it will probably take your over 100 year to access them all . that be why the proper software be a necessity . and if you have the proper software and do not observe the proper ettiquete then you will get throw off your isp ( internet service provider ) within hour . i will point you to both the proper software to access thousand of news group a minute and to market to the news group without get the boot from your isp . $ 199 . 95 - make million - secret of the internet - part three ( include part one and part two ) * * * how to market to over 60 million internet user thru bulk e - mail * * * the third step to make million on the internet be to have the proper software and the proper method to use the bulk email to market your product . if you attempt to use your browser to send bulk email it will probabbly take your over 1000 year to send list of 60 million plus . that be why the proper software be a necessity . and if you have the proper software and do not observe the proper ettiquete then you will get throw off your isp ( internet service provider ) within hour . i will show you where to buy good bulk email , how to build your own list while you sleep and how to send your bulk emaus without get the boot from your isp . $ 279 . 95 - make million - secret of the internet - part four ( include part one and part two and part three ) * * * how to use subliminal method for effective banner advertise * * * the final step to make million on the internet be effective banner advertise . it be not enough to put something up and pray . i will show you how to incorporate subliminal technology into your banner advertise to literally make people click on your ad and come to your site . and i will show you how to literally make them buy your product with these same technique . how do you order ? make your check or money order payable to : " secret of the internet " 11470 euclid avenue - suite 525 cleveland , oh 44106 usa be sure to put your email address on your check or money order and i will email your secret of the internet immediately . order ' part four ' before july 1 , 1998 and get 61 million fresh email addresses for free ! ! !
