Subject: we know you need this , so . . . .

greeting , this email be about fight spam , and win . > > please forward to your friends , family and co-workers to people that want to get spam out of their email : read this , you ' ll like what i be do . . . . : ) to people that want to flame me for whatever reason : do n't be an egomaniac , i have a right to free speech , and the right to say it to a lot of people , so buzz off . - - - - - first let me tell you who i be and what i do . my name be robert young , i live in moscow , idaho , u . s . a . , and i have be use the internet since 1990 . i have watch the internet go from a small community of serious professional to a roar civilization of over 100 million people . until 8 month ago i have be a private investigator specialize in the apprehension of criminal fugitive . after 8 year of do that i start get burn out and decide to turn my life long hobby of program computer into a full time job . now i write specialize application for investigate and locate information on the internet . this summer , during the last week of july , i finally get feed up with the fact that i could not seem to get my 5 year old email address off of spam list . i would reply to their email with the word " remove " like most of them say and the next day i would get more . i send my email address to remove list , complain to administrator , postmaster , and my friend . none of it seem to make a bite of difference . i decide to investigate the bulk email business . what i find make me so angry i almost blow a fuse . did you know : 1 . spammer steal valid email address and use them for return address . you could get the blame ! 2 . spammer purposely deceive filter design to protect your email address . 3 . spammer " hijack " mail server that be mean to relay message from computer to computer . when they overload these server , your legitimate email can be lose ! 4 . congress be not go to pass any law in the unite state anytime in the near future to stop this garbage , and they may never do so . some member of congress have actually campaign through email . ( doe that - really - surprise you ? ) 5 . when spammer register domain name with internic they never pay their bill because they know that the domain will be block and useless within 30 day , and inter give them that long to pay before cut them off . 6 . some spammer buy list of account from hacker that have break into internet service provider and use these account , that belong to other people , so they can connect to the internet without be concern about lose the account . again , you get the blame , you lose your account . most of these spammer be genuine , authentic , certify jerks . i decide to get even , i take all of this very personally . within 3 week , the spam have drop to a trickle . now i only get 2 or 3 a week instead of 7 or 8 each day . update : as of 02-oct - 1998 i have not get a single spam for 5 day . that 's a fact . i be start to get comment from people that join me two week ago that have notice drop in their spam count of as much as 70 % . that be a fact as well . my list of active spammer be over 80 individual now and it be grow every day . it do n't take government intervention , we all know that our government could n't feed a cat without spend $ 400 on a bag of cat food and start 8 committee . what it do take be someone with the gut to take action , now ! what do i do ? first i recognize that spammer be not go to just quit , they make too much money do it . the self righteous " anti-spammer " only wipeout mostly innocent business people with poor judgment . they have not put a single spam mailer out of business yet . not a one ! they just pop up with a different domain name , and dialup account the next day . the anti spammer have actually wipe out several potentially successful remove list . you know why ? they do n't want it to end because then they would n't have a crusade anymore . think i ' m kid ? i know who the anti-spammer be as well and believe me , their motivation be purely egotistical . in my opinion they have make spam worse by drive it underground and ruin the web base remove list . try to go to www . remove-list . com , it be n't there anymore . so i be do it different . human nature matter . . . i use my investigative experience to hunt down the - actual people - that be send me spam . name , phone number , address , etc . it be n't easy but i have the background and knowledge to do it . i call each of these people and tell them that if they do not immediately cease and desist send mail to my address that i be go to give their name , address , phone number and anything else i have on them to every service provider in the country . that i would publish their information on the internet vium the web , and that i would give their information to every ( legitimate ) anti - spam group i could find . i be polite and adult about the issue but i make it very clear that i be dead serious . nothe else have work . people have be try to get rid of spam for several year with no success . this method works ! ! ! if i tell you i could do the same thing for you would you be interest ? i think so . here be what you need to do : first : start your text editor ( notepad , vus , whatever ) second : type the follow information and print it . first name last name primary email address ( remember your email may have two form such as : joe @ isp . com and joe @ mail . isp . com . include both , contact your isp if you be n't sure ) family member ' s addresses ( one per line please ! ) third : mail this information to me : robert young attn : no more spam please ! ! ! c / o super fast service 116 e . 3rd . st . suite 206 moscow , id 83843 we need donations to support this fight . i start out do this for friend and family , then their friend and family , and now it be start to cost us a lot of money . please include a donation of five dollar either a five dollar bill , or a check make out to me . we be hop that there be enough decent people out there that appreciate what we be do and will pitch in a few buck to help us pay for the phone call , computer time , database search , and hire people to do the datum entry for the 600 plus letter we be get every day . p l e a s e h e l p ! i guarantee you will think it be the best five buck you have ever spend if you be sick of spam . thank for take the time to reply to this letter , i hope to hear from you soon . work together we can defeat unwant spam for good .
