Subject: re : a * real * virus alert ( fwd )

fyi about what look like the real thing this time . cherilyn : ) - - - - - - - - - - forward message - - - - - - - - - - deat tue , 6 jun 1995 09 : 43 : 50 - 256 > from notes . wmyer @ a50vm1 . trg . nynex . com to : revwar @ unh . edu subject re : a * real * virus alert what be pkzip ? pkzip be the most common way of compress computer file so they take up less room on a hard disk or less time to transmit over a datum communication link . many people have , and use , this family of shareware product . pkwbe 's current legitimate version of pkzip be 2 . 04g . this , and earlier version may be assume to be safe . how be a trojan horse different than a virus ? the bogus pkzip product be file with pkz300 or pkz300b with either a . zip or . exe suffix . unlike a virus , these program do not replicate themselve nor " infect " anything . they do their damage to that one pc that run the trojan - horse bogus program . it cannot spread , unless a person give out a copy of the bogus program . . what happen if you use this bogus version of pkzip ? the unwary victim download the file from a bbs run by less than through operator . if the victim run the . exe form of the bogus program , it erase the hard disk immediately . if the . zip form be download and " unzip " , the pkzip & pkunzip . exe program will erase the hard disk when execute . special note to note / lan admin : if a lan - attach pc be to run this trojan - horse type program , it would be safe to assume all the lan accessible file that can be delete with the privilege of the logged-on user , will be at risk . note : no anti-virus package guard against trojan horse . antivirus mechanism guard against the pc & the pc operate system from be fool . trojan horse fool the pc user . what you must do : inform all your technically astute pc user about this trojan horse , bogus pkzip version . tell them to beware . do not download or use any pkzip type program from any bbs . until this situation wane , all pkzip product bring into a pc be suspect . i have the honour and privilege to remain yr humble svt , walter h myer , major brigade adjutant brigade of the american revolution
