Subject: re : 6 . 793 , qs : mohawk , russian , bann of german i . mel ' cuk

3 ) deat : tue , 6 jun 1995 1 : 44 : 22 - 256 from : jpkirchner @ aol . com subject : q : german ban in iowa i ' ve recently receive a message from a man who claim that during world war i , the use of german and other language be make " illegal " in the state of iowa by decree of the governor . this be very interest to me , since my own family 's story of anti - german discrimination in michigan at that time be limit to a snide remark or two about our surname . below be the relevant part of the man 's message . can anyone vouch for the veracity of what he say ? jame kirchner ) here in iowa where i grow up most household language be a > foreign language the early part of this century . the public ) school be english of course . my uncle go to a local ) " german " school which be a parochial school . it be ) necessary because all the german lutheran church liturgy and > bible be in luther 's german so the plattdeutsch speak ) people have to go to school to learn it . world war i end that . > the iowa governor issue a proclamation ban the speak ) of any foreign language in public place . phone operator be ) instruct to pull the plug on any non english telephone ) conversation . party line patron be to hold the telephone ) receiver up to the mouth piece so the result whistle ) would interfere with non english speech . all modern language > instruction be drop from school curriculum . a blow ) from which the school system never really recover . ) newspaper publish report of people arrest on the ) street for speak german . this be a real hardship on older > immigrant . all german language newspaper be ) suppress . our rural county have german papers at one time . ) in fact the editor of one be once elect the county ) treasurer . this day and age it be all somewhat embarrass . i > stumble on to the fact that the state of iowa organize what ) amount to a secret police agency . the state form an ) agency whose purpose be to investigate act of disloyalty . ) they be give the power to levy fine and imprison people ) for the duration of the war without benefit of trial . america 's > active participation be relatively short live so the agency ) be not around long . it would make an interest research ) paper sometime if any record still exist . this happen in several midwest state . the issue reach the supreme court in the early 20 's in the case " meyer v . nebraska " , the court rule against nebraska , effectively eliminate the law . frank anshen dept of linguistic state u of ny stony brook , ny 11794
