Subject: sum : bann german , " english only "

content - length : 12420 a few week ago i post part of some correspondence i receive about the ban of german in iowa during wwi . because the response bring up the matter of " english only " or " official english " ( depend on one 's leaning ) i post a further query as to whether anyone know of any recently propose law in the us that would out and out ban language other than english . first i ' ll thank everybody , then i ' ll summarize the german ban , then official english . thank to : seegmiller @ apollo . montclair . edu ( steve seegmiller ) fanshen @ datalab2 . sb . sunysb . edu ( frank anshen ) kiel @ u-aizu . ac . jp ( kiel t . christianson ) kyeager @ prism . nmt . edu ( deborah yeager ) rwachal @ black . weeg . uiowa . edu ( bob wachal ) smburt @ heartland . bradley . edu ( susan burt ) m200754 @ er . uqam . ca ( michel platt ) ligo523 @ utxvm . cc . utexa . edu ( keith walter ) cnelson @ vm . cc . purdue . edu ( dr . christian k . nelson ) niewboer @ let . rug . nl ( r . nieuweboer ) ffgbc @ aurora . alaska . edu ( cooper gordon b ) anfallen @ ursulum . uoregon . edu ( anthea fallen - bailey ) banned german : the original quote i post run thus : ) here in iowa where i grow up most household language be a ) foreign language the early part of this century . the public ) school be english of course . my uncle go to a local ) " german " school which be a parochial school . it be ) necessary because all the german lutheran church liturgy and ) bible be in luther 's german so the plattdeutsch speak ) people have to go to school to learn it . world war i end that . ) the iowa governor issue a proclamation ban the ) speak of any foreign language in public place . phone ) operator be ) instruct to pull the plug on anynon english ) telephone conversation . party line patron be to hold the ) telephone receiver up to the mouth piece so the result ) whistle would interfere with non english speech . all modern ) language instruction be drop from school curriculum . a ) blow from which the school system never really recover . ) newspaper publish report of people arrest on the ) street for speak german . this be a real hardship on older ) immigrant . all german language newspaper be ) suppress . our rural county have german papers at one time . ) in fact the editor of one be once elect the county ) treasurer . this day and age it be all somewhat embarrass . i ) stumble on to the fact that the state of iowa organize what ) amount to a secret police agency . the state form an ) agency whose purpose be to investigate act of disloyalty . ) they be give the power to levy fine and imprison people ) for the duration of the war without benefit of trial . america 's ) active participation be relatively short live so the agency ) be not around long . it would make an interest research ) paper sometime if any record still exist . i get many confirmation that this actually happen , and not only in iowa . reference : philip e . webber ( 1993 ) . kolonie - deutsch : life and language in amana . ame : iowa state university press . birgit merten ( 1994 ) . vom ( nieder - ) deutschen zum englischen : untersuchungen zur sprachlichen assimilation einer laendlichen gemeinde im mittleren westen amerika . heidelberg : universitaet - verlag c . winter . heinz kloss 's _ the american bilingual tradition _ . baron , deni . 1990 . * * the english - only question : an official language for american ? * * new haven , connecticut : yale university press . kloss , heinz . 1966 . " german - american language maintenance effort " . * * language loyalty in the unite state * * , edit by j . a . fishman , 206-252 . london , england : mouton & co . liebowicz , joseph . 1985 . " official english : another americanization program ? " * * language loyalty : a source book on the official english controversy * * , edit by jame crawford , 101-111 . chicago : university press of chicago . deborah yeager : ) bad news : it definitely happen . most of the law pass ) against the use and instruction of german be at the very ) end of the war and so come into force _ between _ world war . > iowa be not the only state . i can't answer to the behavior of ) telephone operator and people on partyline , but i do know ) that teach german be ban not only in the school , ) but also on school property after hour , where church group ) have often hold class . rogier nieuweboer : ) i cannot answer your question on a ban on german in iowa , ) but in fact , in 1914 the canadian authority issue such a ) ban on german ( which be use in mennonite and many other ) school ) . this be the reason why many mennonite emigrate > to mexico . anthea fallen - bailey : ) i write my undergraduate honor thesis on the subject of ) language history in the u . s . i include below a pertinent ) paragraph from that work : ) the most severe blow to german language and culture ) maintenance in the u . s . come with world war i when . . . ) " hyphenate american " be force to choose between their ) ethnicity and the u . s . nation , despite the fact that the ) majority of german - american favor neutrality ( kloss ) 1966 ) . the german language in the u . s . have never since ) recover . from 1917 , when the u . s . join the war , german ) be ban in private and public school , in meeting , in ) religious service and even over the telephone ( baron 1990 : ) 111 ) . national organization disband , german music be ) neither playe nor sell , and restaurant change the name of ) german dish : " sauerkraut " become " liberty cabbage " ; ) " german fry potato " become " american fry " ; and ) " hamburger " become " salisbury steak " ( ibid : 109 ) . in short , ) " german be specifically target as an enemy language to be > root out " . between 1918 and 1923 many state pass ) anti - german legislation ; two state - - nebraska and ) illinoi - - pass english - only constitutional amendment in > 1920 and 1923 respectively ( ibid . : 109 ) . by 1923 thirty-four ) state have pass english - only law relate to the language ) of instruction in school ( leibowicz 1985 ) . ohio , which have ) previously support german instruction in school , pass a ) law in 1919 reject german altogether . ) a footnote here : the ohio 1919 law be eventually strike ) down by the u . s . supreme court vium the 1923 case of meyer v . ) nebraska ( very famous case in language circle ) . english " only " some of the thing discuss bring up some interest question , which i ' ll treat after a couple of quotation . steve seegmiller : ) it may be an unfortunate or mislead choice of term , but ) " english only " do n't mean ban other language entirely ; ) it means require the use of english exclusively for official ) purpose . that presumably include governmental function , ) education , and so forth , but not non-official use . ) at last count , at least seventeen state have adopt such ) english only law , and several more be in the work . not one ) of them propose ban other language . susan burt : ) karen l . adam and daniel t . brink ( ed ) in their * ) perspective on official english * ( mouton . 1990 ) have an ) appendix of text of various language legislation . ) the legislature of arizona attempt an amendment to the ) state constitution which include : ) this state and all political subdivision of this state shall ) act in english and in no other language . ) no entity to which this article apply shall make or enforce ) a law , order , decree or policy which require the use of a ) language other than english . ) no govermental document shall be valid , effective or ) enforceable unless it be in the english language . ) there follow a list of circumstance in which the use of ) other language be exlicitly allow . ) i think the arizona law be consider one of the most ) restrictive , and i think it be somehow find invalid - - or ) maybe it do n't pass in the first place - - i forget . anyway , ) even it do not " ban " other language in private context . christian k . nelson refer to some research on voter ' opinion on official english law , and while i find his conclusion hyperbolic , i think his comment be nonetheless worth read : ) [ i ] be remind of research report in a course i take with ) an anthropological linguist ( now at san diego ? ) : katherine ) woolard . she mention that in the californium " official ) english " push not only be many hispanic in favor of the ) propose legislation , but so be many suppose liberal in ) the san francisco area . she be do an analysis of ) discourse in which such liberal justify their position , ) show that they be base on hide assumption that ) actually run counter to their claim liberal belief . all this ) point up the fact that oppress people , with the help of ) their well-mean supporter , often participate in their own ) oppression . indeed , historical example indicate that such be ) true even to the point that oppress group help organize ) extermination of their own member for oppress group . ) so , the result of the poll you cite be not so transparently ) meaningful . a respondent or two draw conclusion from the oft-mention hysterical tone of the fundraise material put out by the " official english " movement . my own thought on that , as send to one respondent : on tue , 13 jun 1995 jpkirchner @ aol . com write : ) i ' m convince there be a certain style to fundraise letter ) that cross the political spectrum , especially since a lot of ) organization certainly have their letter write by direct ) market agency that be probably not affiliate with any ) particular persuasion . i get such letter from political ) campaign on the leave , right , and in between , include the ) democratic party , and i see absolutely the same nauseatingly > hysterical , hateful style in all of them , as if they be ) write by the same hand . ( which they sometime may ) have be . ) in one letter , the boogie man be " liberal who ) want to take away your freedom , " in another it 's " advocate ) for the rich who want to make you homeless , " in another it 's ) immigrant , in a third it 's jingoist . the common ) denominator be alway the angry , hateful tone they ' re ) write in . have work at an ad agency , i know that the ) people in them know their target , and just how to caress ) them or zing their filling to get them to act . it have to be an ) establish fundraise technique . this whole issue seem to me to be a mix of radical hysteria on both side , mix with legitimate question , which neither side appear will to address . since linguist , to my experience , be generally terrific at preach linguistic tolerance , but do n't often deal with pragmatic question that do n't affect them personally , i ' ll annoy you all with a few question bring up by non-linguist i know . these people be neither radical conservative , nor bother by the use of other language or dialect in their presence . 1 . how come in us region where other foreign language group outnumber hispanic , be safety warning and federal signage be still only post in spanish and english ? 2 . a manager , who have previously not mind foreign language be speak in the office , be suddenly notice a lot of discord , backbite and insubordination among the employee . these be hard enough to quell when everyone be speak english , but it 's even harder for this manager to monitor what 's happen , because it 's all go on in a foreign language . doe the manager a . ) sign up for a begin language course , b . ) quit the job and give it to someone fluent in the other language , c . ) recruit some of the employee as " spy " , d . ) mandate english , e . ) other _ _ _ _ _ ? if the manager mandate english , will it qualify as linguistic intolerance in this case ? 3 . why should a child who speak black american english be accommodate in the classroom by court order , while an appalachian kid get force to learn ( later change to " get the benefit of learn " ) the standard dialect ( i . e . , in addition to his or her own ) ? 4 . " the typist in our company be so incompetent at standard english that even a simple business letter take them at five draft , and one whole day , to get into acceptable form . it alway come out in their dialect , and it 's much easier for everybody to do their own type . why can't they give these people english test ? " these be linguistic and political question to these people , to which i have no ready answer . what do other linguist say ? jame kirchner
