Subject: dislocation

content - length : 4400 - - - - - - - - - - forward message - - - - - - - - - - deat mon , 19 jun 1995 08 : 10 : 48 - 256 > from aaa552 @ agora . ulaval . ca subject / graviton / einstein / aaa552 / mail / bb i post a week ago a query on the topic of dislocation . i want to know whether just any of the phenomenon know by the name of dislocation imply coreference . the response to the post indicate that the word dislocation be by and large use to refer to a phrase p adjoin to a sentence s where p hold a coreference relationship with a pronoun include in s . so there seem to exist a terminological consensus on this notion ( although for some dislocation cover topicalization ) . here be a very slightly edit summary of response . many thanks to all those whose respond . i hope this be useful . pierre larrivee . w . croft @ manchester . ac . uk ( bill croft ) : i think you will have to define " dislocation " to get a useful answer from your query - - - in particular , define it in such a way that the coreference relation do not follow by definition . if " dislocation " means what the etymology suggest , then it involve movement of an element out of its canonical position ; if you allow coreference to phonologically null element ( leave in canonical position ) , then by definition a dislocate element will have a coreference relation to an element in the sentence to which it be adjoin , namely to the null or non-null element it have " leave behind " . if you do not allow coreference to phonologically null element , then the english construction call " topicalization " or " y - movement " be a counterexample to the generalization you be inquire about . if you define " dislocation " in a non-movement fashion - - - i . e . as some element ( an np ? ) adjoin to a sentential constituent - - - then japanese , chinese and other e asian language ' topic construction will be a counter - example , since the " topic " np need not be an argument or even an adjunct of the sentence to which it be adjoin . to this comment of mine : it seem to me that topicalization be a somewhat different phenomenon from dislocation , be it not ? cf . the prosody ( no pause for topic ) and the lack ( in general ) of a resumptive pronoun ( chocolate cake i like ( * it ) ) . w . croft add : prosody would be an interest start on a definition of dislocation that do n't presuppose coreference - - - i think the resumptive pronoun part be more problematic , since specify the form of a resumptive form would presuppose coreference . > from holleb @ linguist . umass . edu ( ? ? bart holle ) at the moment i be work on right dislocation , mainly in dutch . and as far as i can tell there be no counterexample . the moment there be no reference to an element in the " main " clause it be clearly extraposition . a main difference for dutch be that you can extract out of an extrapose phrase , wherea you cannot out of right dislocate one . > from sophie . kern @ mrash . fr ( sophie kern ) i ' m actually writ my thesis about the development of narrative competence by french monolingual child ( 3 to 11 year old use ) a picture book task . one of the domain i ' m study be the reference to the main or other character of the story , and particulierly what kind of linguistic device the child use to maintain or to switch reference in subject position i find a lot of leave and right dislocation . > from larry horn ( lhorn @ yalevm . cis . yale . edu ) you may want to check out an old paper by robert rodman on topicalization and ld in a journal call paper in linguistic . i think it be 1973 . he talk about sentence like : as for noxious odor , my sheepdog fart after eat escargot . in which the sentence be a comment on the topic in the " ld " phrase , but no coreference per se obtain . > from barrett @ zelig . cs . nyu . edu ( leslie barrett ) there 's an article by bower in li ( 1993 ) that mainly concern predication but mention coreference possibility in front vps like the follow : criticize himself , i think john never will i i ) from luge . latrobe . edu . au ( hussein shokouhus ) ronald geluyken have extensively work on this issue in english . he have publish a book in 1992 under the title of ' from grammar to discourse : left-dislocate construction ' . knud lambrescht have also do something on french . he have also publish a book on french discourse and syntax in 1994 . surely , you can find a good number of reference in those two book .
