Subject: linguistic data consortium ( ldc )

content - length : 3687 the linguistic data consortium ( ldc ) of the university of pennsylvanium be collect telephone speech for three major study this summer , and we be ask all member of the research community at large to participate in make them a success . the call be be collect on a new intervoice robotoperator platform that have dramatically increase the ldc 's ability to collect telephone speech . the new system allow up to twelve two channel call or 24 one channel call to go on at the same time . up to 20 hour of conversation can be store before it be necessary to download datum ; the download as well as many program change can be make without interrupt the application itself . in effect , the application will be operational for 24 hour per day . the project be as follow : for voice across hispanic america , we need native speaker of spanish ( from any country ) who can call an 800 telephone number and spend five minute on the telephone read a series of sentence . participant can receive $ 5 . 0 for their time . for callhome , native speaker of english , egyptian arabic , german , japanese , mandarin and spanish can make a free call to another native speaker from an 800 telephone number anywhere in the world and talk for 30 minute . participant can receive either $ 10 . 0 or free telephone time . for callfriend , native speaker of english , spanish , tamil , hindus , japanese , french , farsus , german , korean , egyptian arabic and vietnamese can can make a free call to another native speaker from an 800 telephone number anywhere in the u . s . , canada or puerto rico and talk free for 30 minute . participant can receive either $ 10 . 0 or free telephone time . individual or organization who can recruit at least ten caller should contact us to discuss various incentive program for all three project . the recording will be use for nonprofit scientific research and instructional purpose , and be make available to researcher and educator from all over the world on an equal basis . to receive more information , or to get a personal identification number and instruction for make call , please call us at 1-800 - 380-penn ( 7366 ) between 9 a . m . and 5 p . m . est , or send email to one of the follow address : voice across hispanic america vaha @ unagus . ci . upenn . edu callhome callhome @ unagus . ci . upenn . edu callfriend callfriend @ unagus . ci . upenn . edu for further information about the project or for other information about the linguistic data consortium , please contact us ldc @ unagus . ci . upenn . edu , or you can access our www home page at ftp : / / www . ci . upenn . edu / pub / ldc _ www / hpage . html . you can also send mail to us at the address below : rebecca finch | linguistic data consortium research coordinator | 441 william hall finch @ unagus . ci . upenn . edu | university of pennsylvanium tel : 215 / 898-0464 / fax : 215 / 573-2175 | philadelphium , pa 19104-6305
