Subject: linguistic in science fiction

content - length : 3073 the posting on linguistics in science fiction for the past couple of month have be interest , but curiously limit to compare two type or genre of write as if all that be go on with linguistics in science fiction these day be that some writer who be sf novelist have be inject a few ' neat linguistic idea ' into their narrative and some ( distinctly other ) group of writer who be linguist read these story for fun and like to point out the borrow idea to other linguist . that not all that 's happen these day folks . it seem to me that some of the most interest thing go on with linguistics in science fiction be in the blur of these and other genre ( a general phenomenon that george steiner argue be well underway 20 year ago in his _ after babel _ ) . it do n't take much dig through my library to come up with some example of writer who ' ply the frame ' of sf in way that deserve to be read by linguist ' for serious ' . samuel r . delany 's novel have be mention on the list , but he have also publish two volumes of linguistic essay , _ the jewel - hinge jaw : note on the language of science fiction _ 1977 . new york : dragon press . and _ starboard wine : more note on the language of science fiction _ 1984 . new york : dragon press . richard rorty , probably know by many linguist interest in the philosophy of language ( from his write on the ' linguistic turn ' in that field ) , tell a science fiction story about a mid-twenty - first century expedition to antipodea , a planet where the native lack the concept of mind as part of his argument about ' person without mind ' in _ philosophy and the mirror of nature _ 1980 . suzette haden elgin be a third writer ( and a linguist ) who write about science fiction ' for serious ' . one medium in which she do this be the linguistic & science fiction network , which publish a newsletter ( $ 10 annual membership fee ) out of the ozark center for language study ( p . o . box 1137 , huntsville , ar 72740 e - mail : ocl @ sibylline . com . ) . i ' m sure that there be other such ' blur genre ' piece at the interface between science fiction and linguistic theory . i 'd encourage other subscriber to describe them here in addition to the usual novel and short story ( the serious stuff can be read ' just for fun ' too . . . ) . paul gracie
