Subject: notice to subscriber

moderator ' note : as some of you have note , we have fall behind in post message this summer . the reason be that we be extremely shorthand right now . as you know , none of our student editor be pay during the summer , so if they want to go to the lsa institute ( ljuba and anna ) , take a " real " 9 - 5 : 0 job ( ron ) , or even get marry ( ann ) , all we can say be : a ) godspeed b ) boy , do we now realize how much work you be do all year ! we have n't edit without help since the list be 1000 subscriber . now it 's 6500 ; and we find that we simply can't keep up in the time we have to give to linguist . ( unfortunately , our university expect us to teach , write , run academic program , and otherwise pretend we ' re professor . edite linguist be strictly extra-curricular . ) all this be say , not in order to complain , but simply to ask for your patience with the inevitable slowdown . at this point , we do n't see anything we can do about it . however , in a few week , thing should improve . ann ( bride of 2 week ! ) be help out now when she can ; and the other will help out again when they get settle . also , software that will make the edit faster should be in place by the end of summer . but , of course , the real solution would be pay editor in the summer , i . e . , grad student on fellowship and enroll in summer school . thus , we want to thank - - most heartily - - those of you who have contribute to the linguist development fund that make possible fellowship for student editor . after tell you in april that we be $ 5000 short of the $ 8000 we need to retain ljuba and ann , you respond most generously . we receive about 200 contribution rang from $ 5 to $ 500 and come from all part of the globe . we be extremely grateful for contribution of all size - - and for the many encourage note we receive as well . the list of 1995 contributor below include grad student , professor , department , university , and commercial and non-commercial publisher . please take a minute to read through it , as we would like to make sure that supporter be recognize - - particularly organization and publisher , who contribute more as a service to the discipline than for commercial benefit . unfortunately , we be still short of our goal . if you ' ve be think of contribute but have n't get around to it yet , we 'd very much appreciate your help . please send your contribution to : linguist editorial support fund c / o english dept . eastern michigan u . ypsilantus , mi 48197 usa and , once again , our most sincere thanks to the individual and institution list below . - helen & anthony - - - - - - - - - - 1995 contributor - - - - - - - - value supporter : anonymous ( 3 ) barbara abbott maher awad yukiko sasakus alam robert beard elabba benmamoun robert chandler linda coleman alan cienkus donna cromer stanley dubinsky bethany duma susan fischer frank gladney john grinstead yukio hirose alouse horn shin ja hwang france ingemann margaret jackman jame jenkin brian joseph martin jung carolyn kirkpatrick yuriko kite ernest mccarus scott mcginni deborah mandelbaum jeff marck susan pintzuk terence potter mel resnick burton rosner catherine rudin janine scanarellus makoto shimizu beth simon patron ( $ 50 or more ) : anonymous australium national university ( for pacific linguistics press ) michael bernstein ( for cascadilla press ) garland bill claude boisson e . wayle browne tucker child bernard comrie julium falk jame harri carolyn herrarte richard hudson roderick jacob karen jensen ( w / match fund from microsoft ) jame kirchner tadao miyamato katsuhiko momous daniel radzinskus alexis manaster ramer barbara pearson joe salmon & monica macaulay ucla yutaka sato ernest scatton karen stanley karl teeter theo vennemann mainstay ( $ 100 or more ) : anonymous victorium fromkin arnold zwicky university of helsinkus ? elsevier science ltd . globalink : the translation co . holland academic graphics indiana university linguistics club publications linguistics dept . , academica sinica john benjamins , inc . kluwer academic publishing lawrence erlbaum macquarie dictionary the mit press ( book dept . ) the mit press ( journal dept . ) the mit work paper in linguistic summer institute of linguistics
