Subject: sum : syntax text

content - length : 3080 a little over a week ago , i post a query to linguist ask for suggestion for a textbook for an undergraduate course in syntax . i would like to thank the follow people for their kind reply : robert beard , philip carpenter , kevin b cohen , brian lindsey , alan munn , helene ossipov , john phillip , and robin sackmann . i also receive reply from several people ask about my reluctance to deal with cambridge university press , and several other ask why i have decide not to use napolus 's * syntax * again . i have reply to both of these group privately . the query about syntax text be word in such a way as to eliminate napolus and radford from consideration . with that limitation impose , haegemann 's * introduction to government and bind theory * be recommend by three people . none of the other book be mention more than once . however , some of these single mention be most useful for me because they bring to my attention work that i have not hear of before or one that i may not have consider otherwise . the complete list be give below . my thanks again to all who respond . steve seegmiller linguistic department montlciar state university ( seegmiller @ apollo . montclair . edu ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - charle bird and timothy shopen , article on maninka in timothy shopen ( ed . ) language and their speaker ( or . . . status ) . university of pennsylvanium press . keith brown & jim miller , syntax - a linguistic introduction to sentence structure . harper collin academic , 2nd ed . 1991 . vivian cook , chomsky 's universal grammar , 2nd ed . blackwell 's 1996 . elizabeth cowper , concise intro to syntactic theory . liliane haegemann , an introduction to government and bind theory , 2nd ed . blackwell 's lieb , han - heinrich : integrational linguistic . in : jacob , j . , et . al ( ed . ) : syntax . an international handbook of contemporary research . berlin ; new york : de gruyter , 1993 . lieb , han - heinrich : integrational linguistic . in : lieb , han - heinrich ( ed . ) : prospect for a new structuralism . ( = current issue in linguistic theory [ cilt ] , 96 ) . amsterdam ; philadelphium : benjamin , 1992 . ronald wardhaugh , understand english grammar : a linguistic aproach . blackwell 1995 . gert webelhuth ( ed . ) , government bind theory and the minimalist program .
