Subject: summary and acknowledgment : [ n + v ] verbal compound

content - length : 5298 summary and acknowledgments on [ n + v ] verbs . in march , we send a message about [ n + v ] verbal compound . we be work on this kind of compound in catalan and we wish to know what happen in other language . we also ask for reference . we receive some message . we briefly sum them up in 1 . in 2 . we list the people which answer us and , although we thank them personaly , we ( re ) thank them . 1 . summary our request say something like this : " we be two resarcher at the universitat de girona ( sp ) and we be work on a kind of catalan verbal compound . we sumarize tha characteristic of these compound here below . we be interest in other vo language with the same ( or similar ) process of verb formation . [ n + v ] v verbal compounding in catalan to be more clear we enumerate the relevant characteristic of our compound . 1 . first of all , we must say that catalan be a vo language . 2 . our compound look like a process of noun incorporation where the incorporate noun within the lexical item be the ineternal argument in the syntactic structure . see ( 1 ) : ( 1 ) a . el cacador trenca la cama de l ' ocell . the hunter break the leg of the bird b . el cacador camtrenca l ' ocell . the hunter leg + break the bird 3 . nevertheless , the noun-incorporation doestn ' t affect to the capacity of the verb of assign acusative case , this be , the complex verb remains transitive . 4 . this kind of " noun-incorporation " be only possible when the noun incorporate be a in inalienable possession noun ( ipn ) and the new internal argument of the complex verb be the possessor . see ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) : ( 2 ) a . corferir to heat + hurt b . colltorcer to neck + twist ( 3 ) a . * cadiratrencar to chair + break * ferrotorcer to iron + twist 5 . we hypothesise that the ipn acst as a kind of modifier in the complex verbal form and it do n't act as a verbal argument " most of the people give us reference , they be list below . most of the answer coincide with the belief that this kind of verbal compound be backformation from adjective ( in - er ) or nominal compound . then " to baby sit " come from " baby sitter " for example . another repeat idea be that they be n't productive in language as english , or romance language . nevertheless , we still claim that both question , the productiviy and the backformation , be not so clear in catalan . bertienetto note that maybe there be a relation between this kind of nominal incorporation and a progressive aspect ( it have be also note in the literature about the theme ; see , for example miller g . ( 1993 ) : complex verb formation , j . benjamin . ) . j . alvarez send to us an interest paper on incorporation and possessor ascension in guajiro . in that language , not only inp be able to be incorport but also other kind of noun . we have n't demonstrate our hypothesis yet but we be carry on with our research and any comment be alway welcome . references alvarez , jose ( 1994 ) : " estudio de linguistica guajira " . gobernacion del estado de zulium , maracaibo , venezuelum . gavarro , anna ( 1990 ) : syntactic theory and the grammar of catalan compound , phdiss , university of edinburg . klingebiel , kathryn ( 1989 ) : noun + verb compound in western romance . berkeley , university of californium press . robinson , peter ( 1988 ) : " universal of word formation process : noun incorporation in the acquisition of samoan as a second language " velazquez-castillo , maura ( 1993 ) : the grammar of inalienability : possession and noun incorporation in parguayan guaranus . phdiss , university of californium , san diego . 2 . acknowledgements jose alvarez ( universidad de zulium , jalvar @ conicit . ve ) pier marco bertinetto ( scuolum normale superiore deus pisa , bertinet @ sn . it ) george aaron broadwell ( suny - albany , g . broadwell @ albany . edu ) anna gavarro ( universitat autonoma de barcelona , ilfth @ cc . uab . e ) jose ignacio hualde ( university of illinoi , jihualde @ ux1 . cso . uiuc . edu ) suzanne kemmer ( university of californium , san diego , kemmer @ ruf . rice . edu ) arantza martinez ( univerisitat del pai basc , fvmaeca @ sd . ehu . e ) peter robinson ( university of queensland , peterr @ lingua . cltr . uq . oz . au ) max wheeler ( univerity of sussex , maxw @ cog . susx . ac . uk ) olga fullana ( fullana @ skywalker . udg . e ) lluisa gracium ( gracium @ skywalker . udg . e ) univerittat de girona dept . filologium i filosofium pl . ferrater mos , 1 e-17071 girona spain
