Subject: feminine he

feminine he ouch ! no doubt about it , pronoun and gender be touchy topic . robert millar ( in metaphorically slap me around a little in the ad hominem mode ) make some good point but mistake my focus a bite , misspeak my finding somewhat , and misstate the fuller design of my position a lot . hbe linguistic list vol-6 - 835 ( 22 jun 1995 ) respond to my vol-6 - 806 ( 12 jun 1995 ) . i don ' t mean to say that , as robert millar attribute , " 's he ' enter english as a whole suddenly at the advent of print " - - puhleeeze . i do mean to say that the h - stem feminine suddenly , after print begin , disappear forever from the write record . my broader conclusion be that the h - stem feminine be alive for century beyond the oed 's orthodox-view account of its purport demise . i don ' t discount the sh - form during the period when and in the region where they be amply attest . far be it . i do , however , maintain that the " significant " cause , in the overview , for the disappearance of the h - stem feminine be , not that it begin to resemble phonetically the masculine , but rather the standardize force of print ( the motive for this be a separate question ) . and , too , there be the tell evidence that speak pronoun use be often quite different from write . and i be suggest that some of the oe h - stem survive in speech beyond print 's seem signal of their demise . the late survival of the h - stem feminine have the implication for socio / political linguistics that 18th century grammarian , regard during these past decade as androcentric ( for have write down the " he rule " ) must be admit to not have be so - - " he " be the principal thrust of the androcentric argument , right ? i be tempt to apologize for my insensitivity to other people 's faculty for correctness . in this case , it result in robert millar suffer mood swing - - feeling he share with us - - his sorrow , his anger , regard my position . my intention be not to academically abuse or linguistically victimize anybody . but despite his mood swing , we may all nonetheless benefit from his hot flash of insight appropriate to his rejoinder to my native morphology of singular " they " hypothesis . but i will not continue the " they " discussion here , however , so 's not to detract from the late survival of the h - stem feminine presently under discussion , and indeed much more the hot topic . robert millar say that he suspect that i only have a slight understand of dialect diversity , and that my discuss material from _ pier plowman _ and _ ayenbite of inwyt _ be a way to " circumvent . . . lalme , mcintosh and samuel . " first i would suggest that he provide fuller citation , this for the benefit of those on the list who concentrate in other area of linguistics than this subject ; and second i would like to make available to him and anybody else some of my chart result from my index and sort all the citation for all the form for all the third person pronoun in the oed . m . l . samual , " dialect and grammar , " in _ a companion to pier plowman _ ( ed . , john a . alfred , 1988 ) , specifically identify by dialect nine of the seventeen manuscript of the a - version of _ pier plowman _ . these be the one that have already be identify in kane - donaldson , 1960 ( _ pier plowman , the a - version _ , george kane ) , after generation of effort . the book be a momentous compendium that in my think be conceive with the intention of make work such as mine possible . i use the seventeen manuscript of the a - version of _ pier _ as the mainstay of my argument . samual be unable to identify the dialect in nearly half the manuscript of pier . i specifically focus on _ pier _ because it be a manageable corpus that anyone can go and check for themselve . _ pier _ be a great source for study diverse form because the form be all variation on the same text . where can one find such a wealth of datum for comparative analysis ? and pier can also be consider the first highly " popular " work in medieval english , and for this reason , the scribe , in copy the work for their intend audience , would tend to avoid esoteric , literary , and archaic form . the " cult of auctorita " be the conservative emulation of older form by the copy scribe . robert millar allude to this to explain the h - stem feminine find in manuscript of _ pier _ . i have meet with this criticism before . i will make available to anyone who want them particular line as find in all seventeen manuscript , and rather than the conservation of form , the contrary of the auctorita principle seem to be find in _ pier _ , whereby the scribe , in copy from the original , tend to modify it to regional convention . i be not say that auctorita be not in many instance of medieval scribal practice the rule . i ' m say that look at line of _ pier _ , through the seventeen manuscript , see in them a tremendous diversity . and even so , the use of the h - stem in all the manuscript - - assume for the sake of argument they be not in colloquial use - - indicate that they were well know , nonetheless , do n't it ? robert millar read between my line that i consider the anglo - norman as " wick . " not so . chronocentrism in the read of history be as inimical to reason and human understand as be ethnocentrism in the read of culture . he hold to the orthodox view and say that " the rise london standard spread much more rapidly than it ever would have do in an age of purely manuscript culture . " but would n't the london " standard " better be call the status dialect . it be mistake to assume that write , before and after print , reflect how people generally use language day-to - day . most people talk like _ i love lucy _ and _ the honeymooner _ , not like _ the new york time _ . today , for example , the indefinite / proverbial " he " be primarily a write status form ; the singular " they " a speak form . i think it be very safe to assume that then , just as now , there be a common english and a status english within a particular regional dialect . it be on the basis of this assumption , couple with evidence for the widespread knowledge of the h - stem feminine in the generation before print , that i be postulate the late survival of the h - stem feminine . anybody who would like to have my chart show the " persistence " of all the feminine and masculine h - stem form from the 11th century on , comparative exhibit of line through the seventeen manuscript of _ pier _ , pronoun paradigm from the same manuscript , and perhap a few other item - - they be available for a dollar copy charge and two stamp for usa . jeffrey weber , 2843 n . spauld ave . , chicago , illinoi , 60618 , usa . this current transmission be more an aside than the summary that will be forthcome . i have receive an excellent critique from wittysan ( sean ) , which he send also to robert millar , and would be happy for the ask to share it and my response as this inquiry continue .
