Subject: summary : negate question and exclamation

about two week ago , i post a query on two subject : i be look for language ( 1 ) which can or , on the contrary , cannot use negate interrogative like " look , over there - be n't that john ? " in order to express a positive expectation , and ( 2 ) which have negate wh-exclamation like german : " was du nicht alle weisst ! " ( light . : ' what you do n't know all ! ' ) or serbocroatian " sta nije sve doziveo ! " ( light . : ' what he do n't all live through ! ' ) , that refer to the positive , not the negative fact . first of all , i wish to thank the follow colleague for their contribution : suzanne albrecht ( sanabrium @ zedat . fu-berlin . de ) gisle andersen ( henga @ alf . uib . no ) birgitta englund dimitrova ( birgitta . englund @ tolk . su . se ) frederik fouvry ( fouvry @ llsun4 . essex . ac . uk ) keith goeringer ( keg @ violet . berkeley . edu ) michael israel ( israel @ ling . ucsd . edu ) dalina kallullus ( dalina . kallullus @ avh . unit . no ) jussus karlgren ( jussus @ sic . se ) e . h . klein - v . d . laaken ( klein @ let . rug . nl ) jame kirchner ( jpkirchner @ aol . com ) randy lapollum ( hslapolla @ ccvax . sinica . edu . tw ) pierre larrivee ( aaa552 @ agora . ulaval . ca ) bert peeter ( bert . peeter @ modlang . uta . edu . au ) francisco raga ( raga @ vent . ujus . e ) alexandr rosen ( alexandr . rosen @ ff . cunus . cz ) cristina sanz ( sanzc @ gusun . acc . georgetown . edu ) karen stanley ( karen _ stanley @ cpcc . cc . nc . us ) jan vorster ( vorsterj @ mtb . und . ac . za ) ton van der wouden ( vdwouden @ let . rug . nl ) deborah yeager ( kyeager @ prism . nmt . edu ) ning zhang ( zning @ epa . utoronto . ca ) the language i receive information about be : afrikaans , albanian , catalan , chinese , czech , english , dutch , norwegean , spanish , swedish , yucatec maya . no additional language have be name where the use of negate question like " look , over there - be n't that john ? " be not possible ; so apache and navajo be still the only example i have find so far . . as to the negate wh-exclamation , what be most interest be that they do exist in language where the native speaker i have ask so far have be convince that they do not . example for this be english and spanish , cf . : what i do n't do to get that report finish on time ! ( karen stanley ) cuanto no tendre que sufrir hasta conseguirlo ! ( cristina sanz ) this type of construction can obviously be find in much more language than i have assume . in some of them , it seem to be old fashen and not very wide spread , but it still exist as such . ( if anybody now come to think of one more language that allow that type of utterance - i be still collect , and i ' m grateful for any help i can get ! ) as to the question of why and how these negate question and wh-exclamation work : i be deal with it in paper of mine ( to be publish ) , and i ' ll be glad to mail it to anybody who be interest , but i ' m afraid it 's in german . thank once again to all who help , and please feel free to contact me if you have any question . elke hentschel
