Subject: lexicographer

us-pa - pittsburgh machine translation lexicographer , cmu lexicographer , machine translation application the catalyst project at the center for machine translation , carnegie mellon university , be seek a talent and energetic individual for the position of lexicographer . catalyst be a large-scale mt application for commercial document delivery in the domain of heavy machinery . the lexicographer be responsible for the follow task : * implementation of lexicon refinement / enhancement / maintenance task , in support of source and target language lexicon development . the successful applicant must have the follow qualification : * m . a . in linguistics , m . s in computational linguistics or a relate field * native or near-native fluency in english * experience develop knowledge source for language software , preferably large-scale , multi-lingual lexicon for machine translation in technical domain * understand of the principle of lexicography and terminology management , especially as they relate to semantic accuracy and translatability * demonstrate ability to proactively identify and quantify lexical issue that arise during development / refinement , with special attention pay to issue which span multiple knowledge source ( e . g . , domain model , tl lexicon , etc . ) . skill and experience in these area be prefer but not require : * fluency in any of french , spanish , german , italian , portuguese , russian * experience with manual translation in technical domain full - time salary position , start range : $ 27 , 0 to $ 30 , 0 usd occasional travel require contact : eric nyberg phone : ( 412 ) 268-7281 center for machine translation fax : ( 412 ) 268-6298 carnegie mellon university email : ehn + @ c . cmu . edu pittsburgh , pa 15213 usa candidate should send a letter of application , a current vita , at least three letter of reference , and representative sample of their work . resume , cover letter , etc . may be submit vium email , in ascii or postscript form . resume may also be submit by fax or regular mail , but email be prefer . letter of recommendation must be fax or mail . applicant from abroad may wish to consider express mail to ensure a timely submission .
