Subject: reduplication in child language acquisition and foreigner talk , etc .

in conduct a study of derivational morphology in creole language , i have be investigate the origin of reduplication in the same . specifically , i be try to determine whether it be best to explain the form and / or mean of reduplicate structure in creole in term of the influence of substrate language or in term of the effect of language universal , or both . it have be suggest that datum from child language acquisition study may shed light on the question . also , datum regard " baby talk " and " foreigner talk " ( i . e talk by adult to child and non-native speaker , respectively ) may help in determine the extent to which reduplication in creole should be explain in term of language universal . additionally , the pattern of use of reduplication by adult second language learner in theirnon-native language ( s ) may also prove useful . thus , i would greatly appreciate any information you can give me ( by way of datum , description , reference , etc . ) regard the follow question : 1 . is reduplication a universal feature of child 's speech , baby talk , or foreigner talk cross-linguistically ? any example ? 2 . where reduplication be indeed a feature of the above-mention speech variety , what semantics be associate with the reduplicate form ? specifically , be reduplication use as a category-change operation , or be it use only in a modificatory way ( e . g . diminutivization , augmentation , etc . ) with no category change effect on the word to which it apply ? 3 . where reduplication be a feature of the above-mention speech variety , what phonological form do it take ? i . e be total reduplication the rule ( e . g . " the tiny tiny mouse ' ) ? or be total reduplication with modification ( e . g . " teeny-weeny " ) what we find ? or do we find partial reduplication of one kind or another , in which only syllable or part of syllable be reduplicate ? andy saperstein adsap @ ling . ohio-state . edu ohio state university
