Subject: sum : represent retroflex

summary : represent retroflex at the begin of the month i post a query that ask for information on an alternative way of represent retroflex segment as dorsalize coronal instead of [ - anterior ] . warm thanks to those who respond : philip hamilton phamilto @ epa . utoronto . ca richard desrocher desrochr @ ere . umontreal . ca wechsler wechsler @ world . std . com suzanne urbanczyk suzanne @ oitunix . oit . umass . edu mark verhijde mark . verhyde @ let . ruu . nl stig eliasson stig . eliasson @ ling . uu . se here be a list of annotate reference follow by contributor ' excerpt on the follow topic : 1 . against dorsalization 2 . origin of coronal domination of retroflex : sanskrit evidence 3 . phonetic feature of retroflex blevins 1994 . course note from the 1994 australian linguistic institute . cho , y . 1990 . parameter of consonantal assimilation . phd thesis stanford about sanskrit retroflex element . the claim make here be that retroflexation equal the formation of segment that contain two place node , cor and dor , i . e . what some have define as a " complex " place . interestingly , in assume retroflex segment as have two place node , some neutralization effect at right word edge fall out quite naturally . ( verhijde ) dixon no title give . 1980 . language of australium assume a feature [ + retroflex ] , as do hamilton 's 1993 toronto paper . eliasson , stig 1986 . sandhus in peninsular scandinavian . in : henn andersen ( ed . ) , sandhus phenomenon in the language of europe , 271-300 . berlin : mouton de gruyter . postalveolarization or retroflexion be a most important sandhus process in swedish and norwegian , and the major part of the above article be devote to that problem . ( eliasson ) gnanadesikan , amalia no title give . nels 24 1993 . the feature geometry of coronal subplace . university of massachusett occasional paper in linguistic 1993 she argue against the feature [ anterior ] for define coronal . i believe that retroflex be represent as [ - distribute ] [ + back ] where [ back ] be dorsal . ( urbanczyk ) hamilton , philip 1993 . no title give escol 93 paper on coronal articulation 1993 . no title give toronto work paper in linguistic 1993 . keating , patricia 1991 . coronal place of articulation in the special status of coronal , paradi and prunet , ed . phonetic clue on coronal articulation prince & smolensky 1993 : 179 , cite kirchner 's university of maryland ma thesis . 1 . against dorsalization hamilton : i be currently work on a paper where i argue against dorsalisation more fully , base on a variety of evidence : retroflex be transparent to + back vowel harmony ; all of the evidence for interaction between retroflex and back vowel be from very low level phonetic fact ( there be no lexical alternation back front vowel : / rtus / go to [ rtu ] ) and there be never _ neutralisation _ of a lexical back / front contrast condition by retroflex , all that be attest be that front vowel have back allophone when beside a retroflex ; retroflex be base represent with a feature dependent on an apical node , since the lack of heteroganic apical cluster may be elegantly express with an ocp constraint on adjacent apical node . 2 . origin of coronal domination of retroflex : sanskrit wechsler : the presently-orthodox account of retroflection be dominate by the coronal node receive a lot of its support from the sankrit " rnatus " rule . in this rule , if i recall it correctly , n - > rn anywhere to the right of a retroflex consonant , but intervene non-nasal alveolar block the rule . this kind of interaction between retroflection and the coronal node appear in other place as well ; the one i ' ve study be in warlpirus , where historically there be a rule that partially unretroflex a retroflex stop unless it be closely follow by another retroflex . there be other reason why you may want to avoid involvement with the dorsal tier - - all the vowel live there , and you would have to explain why they be transparent to assimilation involve anteriority . a 3 . phonetic origin desrocher : ladefoge ( 1974 [ 1971 ] : preliminary . . . ) speak of retroflex ( rxs ) as apical postalveolar and give the example of ewe . he add : " in some south asian language the retroflex consonant involve only the tip of the tongue and the back of the alveolar ridge , wherea in other there be contact between a large part of the underside of the tongue tip and much of the forward part of the hard palate " and elsewhere , he speak of the " extremely retroflex sound which occur in some indo - aryan language " ( hindus , gujeratus , penjabus , and so on , i guess ) and when characterize everything with the spe feature , describe rxs as [ - ant , + cor , + high , - back , - low , - dist ] . spe refer to zwicky ( 1965 , his dissert . ) as describe convincingly sanskrit s . as [ - ant ] ( actually , [ - comp ] ) and spe seem to favor the natural class apical + rxs [ - dist ] as oppose to laminal + non - rxs [ + dist ] . they refer for these matter to ladefoge 1964 a phonetic study of w - afr language , and maintain that distinction between dental and rxs support a [ dist ] feature . malmberg ( 1974 , manuel de phonetique generale ) write that rxs be produce with the tongue markedly curve backward toward the hard palate , but his diagram , as ladefoge 's , indicate that this the very front of the palate , or the back of the ridge , that be touch by the apex , and mention south - italian dialect and of course , indium . hockett 1958 make an interest comment : he say that the same acoustical effect than in the rx in " bird " be achieve by some english speaker not by curl back the tip , but by a " peculiar contour of the central part of the tongue , the tip be hold behind the lowe tooth " . further comment , correction , and question welcome - - beau
