Subject: summary : borrow of body part term

many moon ago i post a query regard the borrow of certain body part term , notably , heart , eye , ear , and tongue , and never post a summary ( tsk , tsk ) . here it be : first of all , i have be able to find , either through linguist or from other source , clear example of almost all the basic body part term , include ' hand ' ( many iranian language from persian , ossetic from chechen - ingush ) , ' heart ' ( polish from czech , many indo - aryan and iranian language from persian , turkish from arabic ) , ' tongue ' ( a whole bunch of ethiopian language ) , and so on . the one for which i have no completely clearly document example be ' ear ' ( although there be case of ' ear ' be replace by a neologism from within the language itself ) . * * i am thus still looking for an example of borrowing involving the word for ' ear ' . * * a discussion of the whole question of borrowability of body part term and its relation to language classification ( esp . with reference to the altaic question ) will appear in a paper by alexander vovin and me to appear next year in the zeitschrift der deutschen morgelandischen gesellschaft . finally , i would like to summarize the information provide by those who respond to my original query on linguist , to all of whom my deepest thanks : shirley silver ( silver @ sonoma . edu ) report that mary haa , have reconstruct proto - hokan ' ear ' ( and ' navel ' ) note that one could find or reconstruct similar form in other language family ( penutian , yukus , and the algic language wiyot & yurok ) , which would seem to suggest borrow . this be the closest i have come so far to a borrow ' ear ' . benjamin moore ( ben @ edr5r . edr . co . jp ) report that in modern japanese , the term for animal tongue use as food be ' tan ' a borrow of english ' tongue . ' david costa ( dcosta @ garnet . berkeley . edu ) and george aaron broadwell ( g . broadwell @ albany . edu ) note that choctaw _ nishkin _ ' eye ' ( and accord to costa other form in western muskogean ( chickasaw & choctaw , + mobilian jargon ) , be from some algonquian source ( note proto - algonquian * _ ne $ kus : n $ ekwus _ ) , a suggestion which i have find go back at least to mary haa . however , i should add that ive goddard , whom i ask about this , express strong doubt about any such connection . bruce connell ( connellb @ vax . ox . ac . uk ) report that ' heart ' in usaghade ( lower cross < benue - congo ) be apparently borrow from a neighbour bantu language , with semantic shift . tone mark omit , usaghade ebuma , ' heart ' proto - bantu * - bumo , 's tomach ' . jakob dempsey ( jakob @ u . washington . edu ) report that the common word for ' tongue ' in standard chinese and in hmong - mien language ( generally speak ) [ hm = miao - yao ] be very likely relate , suggest borrow , since these language be not consider genetically link . norbert strade < lingnost @ hum . aau . dk > report that the finnish word for " neck " , " kaulum " , be borrow from baltic . cynthium vakareliyska ( vakarel @ oregon . uoregon . edu ) point that some slavist believe that the russian word for ' eye ' ( _ glaz _ ) be borrow from germany . ( i have be slowly trace the origin of this opinion , which appear to be in error , but have not yet get all the way to the bottom of it . in my view the correct etymology , which be give by several authority , be a shift in mean of the native word for 's tone ' , ' boulder ' or the like ) . reference from the above : connell , b . ( in press ) the role of language contact in the development of usaghade . to appear in sugia ( sprache und geschichte in afrika ) 16 or 17 , special issue on ' language contact and historical change ' . haa , mary r . 1964 . californium hokan . in study in californian linguistic . william bright , ed . university of californium publication in linguistic 34 : 73-87 . jacob , betty ; t . dale nickla ; and betty lou spencer . 1977 . introduction to choctaw . durant , ok : choctaw bilingual education program , southeastern oklahoma state university .
