Subject: job : german language etc . in japan

faculty position , keio university ( german ) keio university 's faculty of science and technology at hiyoshus wish to announce the open of a full-time position in german language and relate area in the humanities and social science , begin april 1 , 1996 . applicant should be native or near-native speaker of japanese , have complete at least the course requirement for a doctoral degree in the humanities or social science , and have at least three year in teach german . preference will be give to those who already hold a doctoral degree in the area to be teach . the successful candidate will be appoint at the rank of tenure assistant professor ( shennin koushi ) or tenure associate professor ( jokyouju ) , depend on his or her qualification and experience . required documents to be submitted : 1 . curriculum vita , accord to the japanese style and format , with one photograph 2 . a list of research papers 3 . three sample publication , three of each , either original or copy , include the candidate 's major thesis or monograph 4 . a description of the candidate 's future research plan ( approximately two a - 4 page ) 5 . a statement of the candidate 's view regard university german language education ( approximately one a - 4 page ) 6 . a description of the candidate 's plan for lecture in area other than german language deadline september 9 , 1995 ( the post cancellation mark will serve as validation . ) selection process candidate who pass the initial screen process will be invite of an interview ( travel and lodge will be at the candidate 's own expense ) . direct notification of the date and other detail will be subsequently provide . address to which application and accompany document be to be send : hiyoshus kyoumuka ( rikougakubu ) keio university 4 - 1 - 1 hiyoshus kouhoku - ku , yokohama 223 japan note 1 . application and accompany document should be send by register mail , with a notice in red ink , preferably in japanese , note their contents and the addressee . 2 . applicant should be aware that the submit material cannot be return except in special case . 3 . e - mail inquiry should be direct to professor keijus nakano ( a01057 @ cc . hc . keio . ac . jp ) .
