Subject: job

kyushu institute of technology ( national university ) , kitakyushu city , fukuoka prefecture , japan invite application for two position . a full-time instructor of efl begin april 1 , 1996 . qualification : a native speaker of english ; ma degree or its equivalent in tefl , apply linguistics , linguistics , literature , international communication or relate field ; under 40 year of age . duty : eight undergraduate / graduate class per week plus other relate departmental responsibility . contract : initial two year contract , renewable to a maximum of of five year ( by mutual agreement ) . salary and and benefit : salary base on japanese ministry of education scale ; bonus , transportation from point of origin , health insurance ; research budget of about 600 , 0 yen per year ; conference travel allowance . a fully furnish house be provide and on-campus residence therein be require . application material : resume with recent passport-size photo , photocopy of all degree / diploma ; verification of past employment ; list of publication ; at least one letter of recommendation ; 500 word essay on " why i 'd like to teach in japan . " deadline : sept 11 , 1995 a full or associate professor of efl begin april 1 , 1996 . qualification : a native speaker of japanese ; ma degree or its equivalent in tefl , apply linguistics , linguistics , literature , international communication or relate field ; at least two year teach experience , over 40 year of age . duty : six undergraduate / graduate class per week plus other relate departmental responsibility . salary and and benefit : salary base on japanese ministry of education scale ; bonus , transportation from point of origin , health insurance ; research budget ; conference travel allowance . application material : resume with recent passport-size photo , list of publication , expert or photocopy of publication , and 200 word abstract of publication , photocopy of all degree / diploma , a photocopy of the certificate of most recent degree with grade , a certificate of physical examination , at least one letter of recommendation . deadline : sept 11 , 1995 contact : shuzo yamanaka ( professor ) department of humanity faculty of engineer kyushu institute of technology 1 - 1 sensuus - cho toba - ku kitakyushu - shus 804 japan fax : + 81 93 884 3400 e - mail enquiry should be send to ; makoto shimizu ( mr ) shimizu @ dh . kyutech . ac . jp
