Subject: sum : nonreferential np 's in english

a week or two ago , i send the follow query to the folks on linguist : > my interest be in identify nonreferential np 's in write english so > that a computer natural lg process system would know not to set up > referent for them to serve as antecedent for subsequent anaphora > resolution . compound ( e . g . duck-shoot season ) can i suppose be > treat superficially as single word , but what about thing like ' lose > faith in ' , ' catch sight of ' . of course , some criterion will involve > larger discourse issue , but it may be that it be possible to identify > at least some nonreferential np 's " cheaply " , i . e . just by look > within a clause and / or consider inherent lexical semantics . my interest be also in example like ' john be a teacher ' , where ' a teacher ' be not use to introduce a new discourse referent , but rather to characterize one which have already be introduce . my thanks to gregory ward , marion kee , and louise mcnally for their reply and comment . to summarize my investigation to date and the comment of these people : ward , gregory , richard sproat , and gail mckoon . 1991 ` ` a pragmatic analysis of so - calle anaphoric island , ' ' in language 67 : 439-474 . - - contrary to what i be assume about compound , subpart may serve as antecedent for pronominal anaphora . louise mcnally note : ' first of all , it appear that language with article system ( like english and other germanic lg . , and the romance lg . ) mark " nonreferentiality " by the absence of an article ( i . e . vium bare singular or , more commonly , bare plural nps ) . although such nps may function syntactically just like nps with article ( in contrast to incorporate nominal ) , semantically and pragmatically they be quite distinct . . . in english thing be complicate by the fact that bare plural also appear to denote natural kind , but this appear to be the [ exception rather ] than the rule ( bare nominal in the other language i ' ve look at do not have this interpretation ) . thus , what be share by incorporate and non-incorporate , nonreferential nps be thus ( 1 ) the absence of an article ; and ( 2 ) their semantics / pragmatic . - - i would treat bare nominal as property denote ( alternatively , as contribute only descriptive content ) , wherea i treat nps with article as entity denote ( alternatively , as contribute both descriptive content and , crucially , a discourse referent ) . quantificational nps be another matter altogether . there appear to be difference between the discourse anaphoric property of noun in compound ( like " baby-sitter " ) and bare plural that occur as independent element in sentence . specifically , bare nominal be much more likely to felicitously license discourse anaphora to " token " entity ( as oppose to kind ) than be noun inside compound . i have not investigate this in detail , but i suspect that the difference involve the sort of existential inference you get vium the use of the compound v . full sentence ( for example , i can truthfully describe someone as a " tomato grower " at time _ t _ without there be any tomato that the person be grow at _ t _ ; in contrast , if it be true that fred grow tomato at _ t _ , there must have be tomato at _ t _ that he grow . - - this pair do n't do justice to the complexity of the problem , but i hope it give you an idea of the difference one find between the condition on the applicability of noun as description and the truth of sentence . ) ' marion kee suggest mark phrasal verb in the lexicon , for example ' catch sight of ' , where 's ight ' be non-referential . while this be an eminently practical solution to a thorny problem , my mandate be to explore method for automatically identify such non-referential use , this be ( presumably ) more general , and computationally less expensive than search the lexicon for give collocation . i be still muse on structural cue which may be use , perhap in combination with semantic information . finally , i have attach a brief summary of the ' background object construction ' in roviana , a w . oceanic lg , speak in the solomon island . i be currently work on a sketch gr for an upcome volume on oceanic lg . the construction i be refer to would be call an antipassive by some ( roviana have morpho-syntactic ergativity with really unusual splits ) , ' i cook the taro ' come out as a transitive , with ' i ' have ergative ' mark ' ( actually , zero for ergative , which be one of the unusual thing ) , and there be transitive morphology on the verb . constituent order vao ' i cook taro ' / ' i do taro-cook ' come out as intransitive , with ' i ' mark as absolutive , and constituent order voa . no transitive morphology on the verb , and you could say that the o have ' move into the verb phrase ' if you be incline to use such dynamic metaphor , and could make a case for what a verb phrase be in roviana . i call this the ' background object construction ' . it be use in subordinate clause , which do not have morpho-syntactic ergativity , and it do n't involve the mark of a as oblique , so i be not prepare to call it an antipassive . now : you use the background object construction ( i ) ( optionally ) for pragmatically background the undergoer in discourse ( coz it be not important ) or ( ius ) ( obligatorily ) if the undergoer be non-specific . by non-specific i mean that the speaker do n't have a particular ref in mind , even if one may be say to exist , e . g . ' i do taro-cook ' imply taro exist , but you be not focus on any particular taro . exception : if you be assert the non-existence of an undergoer by use a prenominal modifier ' none / nothing ' , you can use the normal transitive construction . e . g . ' i do n't kill anyone ' ( there do not exist a person such that i kill them ) = transitive ' i do n't kill anyone ' ( deny the action , not assert the non-existence of the referent ) = background object construction . thus : the transitive construction be use if the undergoer be ( a ) assert to not exist or ( b ) specific and not pragmatically background . the background obj construction be use if the undergoer be ( b ) non-specific and not be assert to not exist or ( b ) specific and pragmatically background . roviana have article that mark information status like definite . the np in a background obj construction however can only be a bare noun . my thanks again to those who reply . any further thought / comment much appreciate . simon corston
