Subject: re : 6 . 933 , misc : english only , a footnote on ban of german

jack aubert write : > in contrast with most of the topic discuss here , [ national language > policy ] be an > issue where the view of academic linguist have no greater value than the > view of layman or practice linguist i beg to differ . lay ( wo ) man 's misconception about language be poison the public debate about english only , and recognize the greater value of the view of academic linguist may be just what be need to improve that debate . is it merely an accident that the vast majority of academic linguist oppose ( while a majority of laypeople support ) english only and relate movement , or be it an indication that those academic linguist know something that the laypeople do not know ? > [ bilingualism in the us ] means make it easier for non - english speaker > to get through life without have to learn to speak english on the grounds > that this be more humane and fairer . i be not an expert on bilingualism , but i have a hunch that this be a very lopside characterization of bilingualism as currently practice in ( small pocket of ) the us . i would be good to hear from subscriber who actually be expert on bilingualism . > most " ethnic " conflict . . . > trace back to language . basque and catalan separatism be base on language . language play absolutely no role in the biggest " ethnic conflict " of our time , i . e . the racist war of the german against jew , slav , gypsy and other " non-aryan " . where language do play a role in " ethnic conflict " , it do so only as ( an important ) part of a different cultural itentity , whatever that be . most of the time , these conflict be n't purely " ethnic " but also ( and sometime please do n't freeze onexclusively ) base on other factor such as class . the " ethnic conflict " between hutus and tutsis be an excellent example for this , but the detail would lead to far astray . > english - - by accident of history - - be the glue that keep the u . s . > together as one nation . the glue that keep the us together as one nation ( if indeed there be such a glue and such a unify nation ) contain many ingredient , among which brute force and economic interest play a much bigger role than english or some other linguistic phenomenon . the unify power of police baton and wageloss ( for which one can blame the japanese , or mexican , or anybody except the american rule class ) far exceed those of the poem of walt whitman . > by require all american child to attend > class teach in english we be do our non-native - english speak > compatriot an enormous favor . clearly the " non-native - english speak compatriot " cannot be include in the " we " who be do " our blablablum " a favor when " we " ( and " we " alone ) require all american child to attend class teach in english . this be what english only truly be about : maintain or return to a status quo where " we " make decision for " our blablablum " whose benefactor " we " thereby be . best , bernhard rohrbacher
