Subject: gene flow and indo - european

h . m . hubey have make reader of this list aware of an interest article which appear in the june 24 , 1995 , issue of science new concern evidence from dna datum indicate a gene flow from anatolium into europe begin around 9 , 0 year bp . hubey also point out that there be genetic evidence that nomad from the central eurasian yamna culture spread westward into europe approximately 5 , 500 year ago . while it be indeed reasonable to link the first migration with the spread of agriculture , it do not follow that those who migrate speak any form of indo - european ( " pre - " , " proto - " , or dialect thereof ) . nor do it follow that " [ i ] t be possible that both expansion be responsible for the spread of different subfamily of indo - european language . . . " we know from cuneiform record that by 3 , 0 bce anatolium be populate ( at least in part , if not in full ) by people speak caucasian language . in eastern anatolium , hurrian and the later attest and closely-relate urartean be speak . these language have be convincingly show by sergej starostin and igor diakonoff to be relate to northeast caucasian . in central anatolium , hattic be speak - - this be later replace by hittite , an indo - european language . diakonoff maintain that hattic be also a caucasian language . finally , diakonoff have claim that the language speak by the gutian ( qutian ) be a caucasian language . moreover , there be no unambiguous reference to indo - european people or language in write record from the ancient near east until just before 2 , 0 bce , and the first reference be to hittite . it be generally agree by specialist ( for example , gamkrelidze , mellaart , puhvel , steiner , among other ) that the hittite be invader who impose themselve upon population speak caucasian language ( in particular , hattic ) . thus , there be much stronger evidence that prior to about 2 , 0 bce , anatolium be populate by speaker of caucasian language than by speaker of indo - european language . thus , it follow logically that if one be to attempt to correlate gene flow at about 9 , 0 bp from anatolium to europe with language spread that one would tend to think more about very early form of caucasian rather than indo - european . allan r . bomhard boston , massachusett
