Subject: disc : the parameter of aspect

" on the parameter of aspect " this post continue the fruitful exchange subsequent to the initial book review of c . smith 's 1991 " the parameter of aspect " . in a follow-up to that review , i note an alternative to smith 's proposal involve a simpler binary parameter for aspect that be in part the basis for my 1995 dissertation on the biblical hebrew verbal system ( u of toronto ) . smith 's reply point out the apparent empirical disconfirmation by mandarin and navajo ( treat in her work among other ) ; and this be where we pick up the thread . i do not grant the traditional analysis of navajo and especially mandarin chinese that be the basis of the objection ; nor do i grant the traditional analysis of the " oriental " language include burmese , japanese , and above all , biblical hebrew represent the classical semitic system . the earliest layer of the quasi-consensus on tense , mood and aspect ( tma ) , flow from comrie 1976 , 1985 to present , be the early 19th century " orientalist " framework that posit ( a ) " tenseless " language or " inflectional aspect " system , and ( b ) a definition of " perfectivity " base on the ambiguity inherent in the concept of " completion " ( global view as well as relative past tense ) ; on " oriental " and " orientalism " , see e . g . , e . said 's " orientalism " 1978 . i reject the orientalist framework and the analysis of semitic system which be extend to other " oriental " system , which be extend worldwide to at least half of the world 's system ; i indirectly reject the traditional analysis of mandarin and navajo . to clarify and make the discussion more concrete , i offer an analysis of english in the orientalist framework ( * please * do not take this seriously as an analysis of english ) . english , as all reputable authority agree , be " tenseless " : it encode only " aspect " ( cf . slavic system ) . not only do we find arrest development , but actual regression from the robust classical aryan tma system . english have but one distinction : - ed v - s / - 0 , respectively perfective and imperfective . the perfective signal " completion " v the non-completion of the imperfective . the severely impoverish system of english signal the regression of the anglo - american mind ( witness reagan and thatcher , etc . , etc . ) . we note several key element that underlie all traditional analysis of so-cal " tenseless " language . 1 ) tma be encode morphologically on the greek model or not at all : the " morphocentric fallacy . " 2 ) the perfective be define as relative past tense ( bypass the revolution in aspectology in the second half of the 1800 ) : the " aorist fallacy . " 3 ) the relative hierarchy of language , with greek and sanskrit on top , semitic near the bottom , and now the creole on the bottom , relate to the relative development of " mind " and tie to a particular pre - darwinian interpretation of evolutionary theory . english be not tenseless , nor be biblical hebrew or quranic arabic , nor be japanese , nor burmese , nor turkish , nor indeed mohawk or haitian creole . they do differ from the standard european system : they systematically differ with respect to aspect in mirror-image fashion . this difference be insightfully capture by cowper 's strong claim for a simple binary parameter for aspect : a system default 's for an aspectual interpretation of its simple tense system , either perfective or non-perfective . the aspect not " default for " be separately encode ( cross-linguistically in a limit number of way ) . european " tense " system default for the non-perfective ( apparently the minority or mark option ) ; non - european " tenseless " system default for the perfective as do english . i simply extrapolate to a strong claim for universal grammar : all system encode tense ( past v non-past ; i do not grant a " future tense " ) , and at least irreali / reali ; and in addition the basic system be configure by the binary parameter for aspect . virtually all system outside of the european sphere default for the perfective accord to my study ; and i assume that be the unmark set for ug . the major diagnostic among many be the ( non - ) obligatory expression of the progressive : the perfective default must separately encode the progressive . e . g . , mandarin must express the progressive by the zaus v construction ( light . " at v " ) : it default for the perfective . navajo and apparently the athabaskan family as a whole default for the non-perfective ( with algonquian system , the only real pocket of european - like non-perfective defaulter ) . this work be summarize in my " tenseless language in light of an aspectual parameter for universal grammar : a preliminary cross - linguistic survey " , forthcome fall 1995 , toronto work paper in linguistic . this do not mean that individual lexica cannot increase the complexity of the system , nor that the many interaction between tma and lexical class be not also parameterize . i ' m only talk about the basic configuration of the tma system for ug . smith be right to point to great complexity inherent in the system she describe in her last post . re mandarin . the difficulty be what count as " inflection " , and whether " inflection " be not infl of standard theorize . i recognize mandarin - le as inflection ; but not - guo , - zhe ( smith do not mention v - ( yus - ) v , nor do she include v1-v2 compound ) . the literature i use be divide on the morphosyntactic status of - guo . but - zhe , i think , do not in any way behave as " inflection " : see among many source , li , thompson , " the mean and structure of complex sentence with - zhe in mandarin chinese " jaos 96 . 4 ( 1976 ) . it certainly be not a " progressive " ; but be perhap some sort of " adjectivalization " . re navajo . i think the jury be still out on these system . but rice 's work on slave indicate the lexical nature of several class of morpheme in the athabaskan verb complex . there be indeed a great deal of complexity here . and since athabaskan be really the only system that do not fall out naturally from my proposal , it deserve great attention . either the whole project fall through , or we learn something interest about athabaskan system , or the proposal get modify in an interest way : who know . we learn nothing without strong claim . in summary : i reject any analysis that be " tenseless " ; and / or define perfectivity in term of relative past tense ( with comrie 1976 ) . these view embed in the current consensus on tma can be easily trace to the early 1800 and the work on hebrew and arabic . i reject that early framework ( and the not-so - pretty cultural baggage that go with it ) . in its place i place cowper 's binary aspectual parameter default , and extend the proposal not only to the other " oriental " system but to a strong claim for ug 's tma system . accord to my survey , the only real problem be what to do with athabaskan system : a project for the near future ( i hope ) . i note that many proposal under other approach would benefit from the reduction and simplification of term , concept , etc . e . g . , bybee et al 's system can be streamline ; and symmetry emerge that appear amenable to explanation . descriptive / typological work be put on a better foot as well . respectfully , vincent decaen c / o near eastern study dept 4 bancroft ave . , 3d floor university of toronto toronto on m5s 1a1 canada or decaen @ epa . utoronto . ca
