Subject: re : 6 . 959 , disc : he / she

my message 6 . 959 , disc he / she , that be post this past week , demonstrate that orthographical thorn do not send . i have replace them with th - . also , middle english or pier plowman scholar who would like more line from pier and the pronoun paradigm , please e-mail me . also , can someone summarize the patridominance in language theory of catherine callaghan ? + + + + + + + [ former post with thorn replace ] dear linguist list subscriber , for the continue discussion of the pronoun , i have some line of datum from the 17 manuscript of the a - version of pier plowman . they can generally be say to be representative of 15th century usage . is it not strongly suggest in the line that " proverbial he " , and perhap the " original " morphology of the so call " generic-he " , be feminine , not masculine ? what a strange thing to say ! can this be accurate ? look at the middle english pronoun , use the modern paradigm to evaluate them , be mislead and inconclusive . when the development of middle english " his " or " him " be evaluate without take into consideration their development from old english morphology , much of the story be lose - - that these two " masculine " form be also neuter , and in this later sense ( " not one or the other " ) , serve well for the indefinite singular - - by way of development from the oe masculine / neuter oblique ; and the feminine form be morphologically relate to the plural . in the follow line , the h-stem subject be the feminine ( / plural ) , not the masculine . am i wrong ? ( play for a moment the devil 's advocate ) do n't these line below fly in the face of feminist theory as it see the " he " " steal cognitive space " , wherea in fact , they be feminine form ? i would like to have some feminist theory input about these line of evidence . if so-go - the-language , so-go - the-culture ( a la whorf ) , what can we make of the " hers " = " theirs " identity find widespread in middle english morpholgy , and what can we say about the " proverbial he " in the follow be feminine ? is there anybody strong in feminist theory , particulary a feminist him - / herself , who can discuss this in the general forum ? is my understand correct that feminist history see the h-stem feminine as have drop from live english by 1300 ? please help . do not hesitate to contact me personally about any aspect of this , pro , con , or indifferent . lines from piers ( * = unavailable character ) passus iii line 229 a ch and he that gripeth gift , so [ ? ] god helpe , d and ho so gripeth here gift , so me god helpe , e thaus that grypith such gift , sa me god helpe , h but he that gripeth siche 3efti , so me god helpe , h2 and he that grype here gift , so me god helpe , h3 j and he that gripith mede , so me god helpe , k and thay thatat grepyn her gift , so me god helpe , l and ho that gripeth heore 3eft , so me god helpe , m and 3e that grypit here 3ifti , so me god helpe , n and he that gripeth 3e gift , so me god helpe , r and he that grypyt 3oure gift , so me god helpe , t and he that gripith here gift , so me god helpe , u and he that gripeth here gold , so me god helpe , v and heo that 3iftus heore gift , so me god helpe , w he that gripeth here 3eft , so me god helpe passus iii line 230 a schul ab * e [ abide ] it full bitterly or elli the bok lyeth ch shal ab * e bitterly or the bok lie * th d shal ab * e it bitterly or the bok lyeth e sall ab * e it full bytter as the buke telli h he schal abigge it bitterly or elli the bok lus * eth h2 shal ab * e it biterly or the bok lyeth h3 shal ab * e it bitterly or the bok lus * eth j schulun abugge wel bitterly or the bok lyeth k schallen abigge hit wel bitterly or the bok lyeth l shal ab * e hit wel bytter or elli the bok lyeth m scholyn abiggyn wol bytter or the bok liet n shal ab * e hit wel bitterly ar the bok lyeth r shal ab * e ful bitterly or the bok lye t shal ab * ie it bitterly or the bok lus * eth u shal ab * e ful bitere or the bok lye v theus schullen abugge bitterly or the bok lus * eth w shal ab * e it bitterly or the bok ly
