Subject: on language and separatism

on linguist vol-6 - 955 , jelly julium ( julium @ let . rug . nl ) say : " basque and catalan separatism be not base on language . why do we never hear " anything about galician separatism on the iberian peninsulum ? galician be a " language very different from spanish ( and not so different from portuguese ) . " the name of the region be galicium and be part of spain . galician be a language " much older than spanish itself : it be use for poetry and by the king in " ancient time . still , we do not hear a lot about galician separatism . neither " do we hear anything about leonese separatism , aragonese separatism , andalusian " separatism , simply because it do not exist . separatism on the peninsula have " nothing to do with language . it have everything to do with historic rights of " old kingdom . galician separatism exist . it just simply do n't reach the news because galician separatist ( a minority ) have n't kill people , even though they ' ve try to on a couple of occasion . on the contrary , galician separatist ( and federalist ) have be kill by the spanish army and police ( during franco 's uprise and regime ) . there be galician separatist in the jail of the spanish kingdom . the spiral of stret and institutional violence be benefitial to the western democratic state . separatism in the iberian peninsulum , as elsewhere , have to do with the way people view ( or be lead to view ) their own identity in opposition to other identity . language be most often , if not alway , an issue . as for galiza , to the extent that the spanish state be able to keep the lid on the language issue by tame the language of galiza ( portuguese ) and turn it into a domestic " galician " , no problem - - galiza win reach the news . galiza , as many other minorize culture of the world , be catch between two state : spain and portugal . what the kingdom of spain and , particularly , its representative in galiza ( the majority of the local political and intellectual elite ) can't cope with be the fact that another state 's language , portuguese , be speak ( and write as such , by a small fraction of the elite ) within spanish territory . legislative , administrative , and judicial measure have be take to silence some intellectual , writer , and teacher who support , with rational argument , the view that " galician " be just a set of regional and social variety of portuguese , and therefore it should be write with the portuguese orthography . these act of actual repression , discrimination and censorship by the mechanism of the spanish state do n't reach the news either . the situation of the " language question " in galiza nowaday be the furthest one could imagine from a civilize , technical and political debate on how to articulate and reconcile galician identity / ie with galiza 's language . it be discourage and worrisome to see how the term " reintegrationist " , which refer to those who seek the effective recognition of galician as a part of its natural linguistic domain , portuguese , be be throw around as an insult in public and academic discourse . i should clarify that the separatist / reintegrationist line intersect each other . that be , there be galician separatist or nationalist who be reintegrationist and use the portuguese orthography , and then there be other separatist and nationalist who be very happy with the institutionally-support view of galician as a " separate language " to be write , however , with a spanish - base orthography . in the meantime , galician portuguese be be learn less and less as a first language . but that 's not the real issue . celso alvarez - caccamo lxalvarz @ udc . e
