Subject: re : bann of german

while flip through random book at the linguistics library , i fall over something that would be interest to this discussion . i have n't be follow this thread , so this may have be mention before . i find a reference to the us supreme court report , 1922 october term , meyer v . nebraska , p . 392 - - 403 in steinberg ( 1993 ) an introduction to psycholinguistic , longman . i ' ll quote the passage in full , as it be so well write . it 's in the begin of chapter 8 . " in may of 1920 , in hamilton county , nebraska , a rural area of the unite state , a teacher , mr robert meyer , be arrest for violate state law . mayer have be teach bible story in german at zion parochial school to a 10 - year-old boy . nebraska law forbid the teach of a second language to child under the age of 13 . not only nebraska but 21 other state as well prohibit the teach of foreign language , except 'd ead ' language such as latin and greek . accord to nebraska 's 1919 siman act , ' no person . . . shall teach any subject to any person in any language other than the english language . language other than english may be teach only after a pupil shall have . . . pass the eighth grade . . . . any person who violate any of the provisions of this act shall be deem guilty of a misdemeanor and , upon conviction , shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty-five dollar ( $ 25 ) , nor more than one hundr dollar ( $ 100 ) or be confine in the county jail for any period not exceed thirty day for each offense . ' if find guilty , meyer could have be fine or even send to jail . the state have pass these law essentially with the german language as the target , america have just finish a war with germany and there be a hatr of germany and thing german , particularly its military value , ideal and political institution . the law reflect the widespread belief that the german language be the embodiment of all that be evil in german culture and that to teach such a language to young american would be immoral and corrupt . meyer decide to appeal his case to the supreme court of the state of nebraska . ironically , lawyer for the state of nebraska take essentially the position present in the german language by the german philosopher , wilhelm von humboldt , in 1836 . that be , a language by its very nature represent the spirit and national character of a people . if this be true , then by teach them the grammar , structure and vocabulary of the german language , meyer could indeed have be harm american child by make them into german militarist right there on the plain of nebraska . the nebraska supreme court deny meyer 's appeal , but meyer do not submit . he then take his case to the highest court in the country , the unite state supreme court , where he win his case . that court overturn his conviction and declare unconstitutional all law in the unite state which forbid the teach of a foreign language . in its 1922 rule the court state as one basis for its decision . ' mere knowledge of the german language cannot reasonably be regard as harmful . ' we see in this story that a seemingly purely theoretical issue can have very practical consequence in everyday life . in make a legal decision on the matter , the court also make a psycholinguistic decision , on the relationship of language , think and culture . was the court correct ? it be this question that we shall now consider . '
