Subject: linguist list correction

full - time associate or full professorship from april 1996 english language program french language program german language program nagoya university of commerce and business administration invite application from associate or full professor with relevant academic and teach experience . a doctorate degree in linguistic , education or relevant regional study field and teach experience be a must . applicant must be well-publish ( at least 20 work ) academic of high professional stand . the faculty member will be expect to give language class and lecture on the cultural and social background of the region . the initial contract of employment be generally for a minimum period of two year . thereafter , pend the mutual agreement of employer and employee , the contract be renewable annually . start salary be establish accord to qualification and experience - the present salary range be from 9 - 11 million yen per annum . faculty normally teach eight 90 minute period per week - monday to friday . the school year be organise into two 15 week semester : 1st april - end july september - mid february the summer break be approximately 6 week long . the winter break be approximately 3 week long . there be also a 6 week spring ' break ' - because of official commitment travel outside japan during this period be subject to approval . accommodation be not provide for faculty , however every assistance be give in find a suitable location and draw up contract . financial assistance be offer in the form of an interest-free advance for arrival expense . a low-interest car loan be available . return air-fare be provide . the campus be situate on the outskirts of nagoya ( 3rd largest city in japan ) . nagoya be at the heart of the industrial zone of japan and be a coastal city within easy reach of tokyo ( 2 hour ) , osaka ( 1 . 5 hour ) and many other area of historical and cultural interest . the language center be superbly appoint with advance computer facility and modern amenity . every student have a macintosh computer ( powerbook 520 ) . at present our language faculty consist of about twenty-five member who teach english , chinese , french , german , korean and thaus . please send ( or fax if possible ) application to : melanie bowyer executive assistant to the president nagoya university of commerce and business administration 4 - 4 sagamine komenokus - cho nisshin - city aichus 470-01 japan telephone : 81 ( 2959 ) 3-2111 fax : 81 ( 2959 ) 3-1202 e-mail : mbowyer @ nucba . ac . jp
