Subject: bilingualism

i ' m not sure why , but i be reluctant to post on the issue of us bilingualism . in any case , i feel oblige to say this as an educational linguist who have work in esl and tangentially in bilingual ed teacher education . first of all , the entire notion that bilingual ed be , be , or could be ( design as ) a method for introduce national plurilingualism be a nonstarter . therefore any debate about it use plurilingualism as argument get nowhere . in fact , with out a wish to flame anyone ( because i do n't think it be intentional ) the entire argument that we should stop bilingual ed because of its anti - english or anti-standard english agenda be of a kind very familiar to us in educational circle . it 's little different than what we hear from those who argue that proponent of progressive educational idea x ( e . g . whole langauge read instruction , process write , outcomes-base ed . ) be try to bring down standard , undermine society , do something unamerican , and so on . it be essentially a rhetorical manipulation of the worst kind , base on false supposition , and intend to push hot button . by say this i be not defend bilingual ed or any other movement . however , i think these need to be debate on their educational merit . why be the argument a nonstarter ? admittedly , there be those in education who propose that student have the right to their own dialect language or what-have - you , and that they should n't have to learn standard english in school . however , they be largely involve in an academic exercise that take place in the page of journal of various sort . they do not shape policy . the avow purpose of the vast majority of bilingual ed program be usually to ease a limit english proficient child into the mainstream . the idea be that if they take content area course in their first language they will not fall behind while learn english . the program contain esl component that supposedly will allow the kid to mainstream later . some program do encourage native language literacy and continue class native language class throughout a child 's school career . some take very young english speak kid and put them into these class on an immersion basis . since usually older english speak kid in other school be try , in theory , to learn the same language the immigrant kid be already fluent in , i fail to see what be controversial about that . it seem to be design , in theory again , to encourage personal , not societal , bilingualism . the failing of bilingual ed , in place where it have fail , have more to do with poor educational practice than with policy . if kid be arrive at college after say five year in bilingual ed , and be enter esl program , something do n't work right . to anyone remotely familiar with urban school , that should hardly be a surprise . now , on a national level i think we should look at us bilingualism and forget about catalonium or the basque country for a moment . bilingualism in the us have endure over many generation in several situation : ( i ) tight - knit religious community : hasidic jew who speak yiddish , old order amish , brethren , and mennonite , who speak their german dialect . ( ius ) group who be overtake , to put it nicely , by english speaker : the navajo and other indigenious people ; french creole speaker in louisiana , spanish in the southwest . ( iius ) isolate community : gullah in south carolina and georgium . immigrant , it would seem , tend to assimilate linguistically over a few , typically very few generation . in spite of the myth that spanish - speaker be somehow different on this score , i think , it would be instructive to look at the case of new york , which be full of people young hispanic who cannot speak more than a few word of spanish - this in spite of continue immigration from spanish - speak country . as a non - yiddish or hebrew speak ashkanazus jew , i entirely understand this phenomenon although as a learner of spanish as a foreign language , i lament the lose opportunity . finally , i think it would be more instructive to look at which american feel threaten by the non-existent threat of the demise of something that have never exist ( the us as a monolingual nation ) and try to figure out why people feel that way . why , for example , be it an issue in the west and not in new york ? why be it associate with right and not the leave ? why have it come up now again ? is it it really just good old american nativism , ' 90 style , or be there something different go on ? also , why have n't we in linguistics and education do more to communicate with mainstream american that the whole thing be a lot of nonsense ? michael newman dept . of educational theory & practice the ohio state university mnewman @ magnus . acs . ohio-state . edu
