Subject: discussion : english only

one point that jack aubert make in his recent post be dead on : quite apart from any putative intention on the part of policy maker , in the u . s . today " bilingualism " rarely means the ability to speak two language fluently . i ' m think particularly about so - - call bilingual class in our public school , where many people get their first notion of what this word refer to . i have enroll my child in these class whenever possible , but with this decision come the responsibility to attempt to convince administrator that native speaker of english must be require to learn some spanish in these class . ( the bilingual class at my child 's school be alway spanish - - english . ) it have never be expect in any of the bilingual class my kid have be in that they should be study two language too ! these class be run as a one-way street - - - and everyone know it . as one little girl ( require to enroll ) in my daughter 's class tell me , " bilingual means you ' re dumb . " hmmmmmmmmmm what people say the word ` bilingual ' means in your standard want ad be probably too hot an issue to handle . ( is this a new ` ` urban myth ' ' that such ad be actually seek people of certain ethnicity ? ) i suspect that the term be come to mean something quite different than its traditional denotation , and sometime soon we ' ll find that the word ` ` bilingual ' ' activate a number of presupposition about both mastery of english and ethnic identity , not unlike what happen to the term ` ` illegal immigrant ' ' , as be demonstrate in various report which be release at the time of the debate on prop 187 . this sort of change in the use of the word ` bilingual ' will not help anyone whose goal be to encourage the study and use of more than one language in the u . s . because non - - expert , if they do not control language policy , be certainly involve in that policy make . i suggest that the way to combat it be very local action : take the time to talk to the principal ( s ) of your local public elementary school ( s ) . robin schafer rschafer @ ucsd . edu
