Subject: " english plus " resolution in congress

the " english - plus " resolution below be introduce into the house of representative on july 13 by rep . jose serrano ( d - n . y . ) , along with 31 other democratic cosponsor and one republican , ileana ro - lehtinen ( fla . ) . it be a nonbind statement of policy intend as counter to six english - only bill now pend in congress . ( these measure include the king bill , h . r . 1005 , which would declare english the official language , end bilingual education and bilingual ballot , and require all government business to be transact in english ; and the only slightly less restrictive emerson bill , h . r . 123 , which likewise declare english the official language and end all federal fund for bilingual education . the emerson bill have more than 120 sponsor and be hold to be likely to pass this year ; hearing will probably be schedule once the present conflict over the budget be resolve . ) some opponent of english - only measure have feel that the word of this resolution be not as strong as they would like , particularly as it make only indirect reference to bilingual education program . still , its passage would have an important symbolic effect , and even if it should be defeat in committee , it will at least help to draw the battle line over this issue . the lsa executive committee vote at its meet this may to give its support to this resolution ; and in a mail ballot a few year ago the membership of the society declare its opposition to english - only measure by a margin of 94 to 6 percent . individual linguist may want to make their view on the english - plus resolution know to member of the house committee on economic and educational opportunity , whose name follow the text of the resolution below . committee member can be reach at : the honorable _ _ _ _ _ _ _ u . s . house of representative washington , dc 20515 geoff nunberg concurrent resolution entitle , the ` ` english plus resolution ' ' . wherea english be the primary language of the unite state , and all member of the society recognize the importance of english to national life and individual accomplishment ; wherea many resident of the unite state speak native language other than english , include many language indigenous to this country , and these linguistic resource should be conserve and develop ; wherea this nation be found on a commitment to democratic principle , and not on racial , ethnic , or religious homogeneity , and have draw strength from a diversity of language and culture and from a respect for individual liberty ; wherea multilingualism , or the ability to speak language in addition to english , be a tremendous resource to the unite state because such ability enhance american competitiveness in global market by permit improve communication and cross-cultural understand between producer and supplier , vendor and client , retailer and consumer ; wherea multilingualism improve unite state diplomatic effort by foster enhance communication and greater understand between nation ; wherea multilingualism have historically be an essential element of national security , include the use of native american language in the development of code communication during world war ii , the korean war , and the vietnam war ; wherea multilingualism promote greater cross-cultural understand between different racial and ethnic group in the unite state ; wherea there be no threat to the status of english in the unite state , a language that be speak by 94 percent of unite state resident , accord to the 1990 unite state census , and there be no need to designate any official unite state language or to adopt similar restrictionist legislation ; wherea ` ` english - only ' ' measure , or proposal to designate english as the sole official language of the unite state , would violate tradition of cultural pluralism , divide community along ethnic line , jeopardize the provision of law enforcement , public health , education , and other vital service to those whose english be limit , impair government efficiency , and undercut the national interest by hinder language skill need to enhance international competitiveness and conduct diplomacy ; and wherea such ` ` english - only ' ' measure would represent an unwarrant federal regulation of self-expression , abrogate constitutional rights to freedom of expression and equal protection of the law , violate international human rights treaty to which the unite state be a signatory , and contradict the spirit of the 1923 supreme court case meyer v . nebraska , wherein the court declare that ` ` the protection of the constitution extend to all ; to those who speak other language as well as to those bear with english on the tongue ' ' ; now , therefore , be it resolve by the house of representative ( the senate concur ) , that the unite state government should pursue policy that - - ( 1 ) encourage all resident of this country to become fully proficient in english by expand educational opportunity ; ( 2 ) conserve and develop the nation 's linguistic resource by encourage all resident of this country to learn or maintain skill in a language other than english ; ( 3 ) assist native american , native alaskan , native hawaiian , and other people indigenous to the unite state , in their effort to prevent the extinction of their language and culture ; ( 4 ) continue to provide service in language other than english as need to facilitate access to essential function of government , promote public health and safety , ensure due process , promote equal educational opportunity , and protect fundamental rights ; and ( 5 ) recognize the importance of multilingualism to vital american interest and individual rights , and oppose ` ` english - only ' ' measure and similar language restrictionist measure . house committee on economic and educational opportunities republican democrat william f . goodle ( pa ) , chmn . william " bill " clay ( mo ) thoma e . petrus ( wi ) george e . miller ( ca ) marge s . roukema ( nj ) dale e . kildee ( mi ) steven gunderson ( wi ) pat william ( mt ) harri w . fawell ( il ) matthew g . martinez ( ca ) cass ballenger ( nc ) major r . owen ( ny ) bill barrett ( ne ) thoma g . sawyer ( oh ) randy cunningham ( ca ) donald m . payne ( nj ) peter hoekstra ( mi ) patsy t . mink ( hi ) howard mckeon ( ca ) robert e . andrew ( nj ) michael castle ( de ) john f . " jack " reed ( ri ) jan meyer ( ks ) timothy j . roemer ( in ) sbe johnson ( tx ) eliot l . engel ( ny ) jame talent ( mo ) xavier becerra ( ca ) jame greenwood ( pa ) robert c . " bobby " scott ( va ) tim hutchinson ( ar ) gene green ( tx ) joe knollenberg ( mi ) lynn woolsey ( ca ) frank rigg ( ca ) carlo a . romero - barcelo ( pr ) lindsey graham ( sc ) mel reynold ( il ) dave weldon ( fl ) david funderburk ( nc ) mark souder ( in ) david mcintosh ( in ) charle norwood ( ga )
