Subject: re : summary : ' no ' and ' man '

thank for all the response . it be really something to get the number and quality of idea . 1 . ' no ' my initial query be : south african english use of ' no ' - do this occur in context such as : a . how be you ? b . no , i ' m fine . in other english variety / other language ? confront with such example , vistor to the country often comment that in sa english , ' no ' means ' yes ' . this , of course , be not true . ' no ' would be the response to the question ' do you have the time ? ' if the speaker do n't have the time . * generally : a couple of people comment that ' no ' definitely do not mean ' yes ' in these context . what it do be rather to negate the possibility of a negative belief concern the answer to the question . in the example above , for instance , b . be negate a . 's possible belief that b . be not well . why south african hold that the possibility of such negative belief be so strong they have to be deny remains to be see . * ' no ' in other variety of english the use of ' no ' in the type of example cite anyway be not record accord to the response in : - australian english - american english - english english it is record in : - nigerian and ghanaian english there do appear to be related ( but not identical ) discourse use of ' no ' and similar particle in other variety of english . few english response actually deal with this usage at all . by far the majority be on ' man ' * ' no ' in other language ' no ' do seem to be use in a variety of other language in the same way as in sa english . similar use be record in : - the scandinavian language - german ( 'd och ' - similar but not identical ) - cameroon french - bangkok thaus ( ' plaw ' - light . ' empty ' ) - spanish ? it also occur , incidentally , in afrikaans . 2 . ' man ' my question here relate to the use of ' man ' to express a negative emotional involvement of the speaker of some sort - irritation , impatience or annoyance . example give be : man it 's hot today hurry up mom , man man , i can't this right * english a huge response that show that ' man ' be use similarly in : - american english ( both ' black ' and ' white ' ) - scottish english - tyneside english ( in north east of england ) - jamaican english - welsh english - an ' americanism ' find in other variety of english . the american english usage at least do not necessary carry negative sentiment and be ' a more general tag . . . over which any kind of emotional intonation can be lay ' . example b . above , an example which typify sa usage , be find to be odd ( ' wierd ' ) by american respondant . the reason for this be that ' man ' although an interjection still appear to ' have the flavour of a term of address so that ' mom , man ' sound like two form of direct address in a row ' . it seem , then , that ' man ' in sae do not bare the feature ' term of address ' at all in such context . the only instance in which similar usage be give be in tyneside english . ( ' shut up man geoff ' ' those keg be too tight man mary ' . here though , the actual term of address occur finally as oppose to the use of ' man ' finally in sae . this need to be explore further , but of further interest : - there be a distinctly ' american ' use of ' man ' in sae that be not like the south african use of man ( ' cool man ' type of utterance ) . - other sa example of man : - daddy , man ! ( 5 year old daughter after i stand on her toe ) - man , david , i do n't mean that ( wife and self in ' altercation ' ) - no man , that 's not right . - man ! this bloody computer be give problem . - saenglish ' man ' alternate between shwa and full vowel in all context . ( in sae shwa occur as a vowel in stress context - 's it ' can have shwa for eg ) : relate usage in currant american english be the use of 'd ude ' . * other language relate use of ' man ' include : - dutch - swedish ( ' boy ' be use in a similar way ) - norwegian - ? german use of ' etwa ' may have similar function - german ( ' usually to indicate weariness ' ) - spanish - ? lhasa tibetan ( ' mi ' - ' person ' ) interestingly in dutch the 'd ouble address form [ as in ' hurry up mom , man ' ] be impossible ( just " schiet op , man " must do ) . ' some interest stuff come out as you can see . just for your interest , on further sa english item : - ' sorry ' for ' i beg your pardon ' e . g . a drop something without know . b pick it up and call out to a ' sorry , you drop something ' anyway thanks to : helen adamson geoffrey sampson elin haf gruffyd jone celso alvarez caccamo maus kuha mark donohue marek przezdzieckus scott delancey mat eeg-olofsson dom watt hilde hasselgard nicole nelson jane a . edward sren harder charlie rowe nobue morus adiego lajara bruce connell krisadawan hongladarom frank bramlett deborah milam berkley dougla s oliver larry trask kristine hasund paul boersma m . lynne roecklein judy l . delin benjus wald stephen p . spackman john verhaar randall major + the person who wish to be anonymous for the reference .
