Subject: two summary

i apologize for be so negligent in post these summary to question i ask 6 week ago . the response be plentiful and very useful , and quick ! congratulation go to jame vanden bosch ( vand @ calvin . edu ) and rob pensalfinus ( rjpensal @ mit . edu ) who answer my question on french loan word and language evolution before i have even receive the post from linguistlist . wow . the figure i have remember be that some 10 , 0 word be borrow from french into english . as most people say , it come from baugh , albert c . ( 1951 ) , _ a history of the eng lang _ , 2nd edn . routledge & kegan paul , london , p . 215 . which be basically the only place i have n't look . other interest information : p . 327 " accord to jespersen , nearly half ( 42 . 7 percent ) of the french borrow in english to ca . 1900 belong to this [ 1250-1400 ] period . 36 . > from thoma pyle , the origin and development of the english language . ny : harcourt brace jovanovich 1971 , 2nd ed . pyle be quote ( his footnote 36 ) : jesperson , growth and structure of the english language , 9th ed . oxford 1954 ( orig . pub . 1905 ) . other reference : coleman , julie ( 1995 ) the chronology of french and latin loan word in english . _ transaction of the philological society _ 93 , 95-124 . there be further reference there . there 's also a recent book , i think , by christiane dalton - puffer . steve seegmiller write : the total number of borrowing from french be certainly much higher that 10 , 0 - probably ten time that number or more , if you count the word in an unabridge dictionary ( rather than , say , the 20 , 0 most common word ) . i have hear figure ( perhap from jespersen again , i ' m not sure ) to the effect that 80 % of all of the word in be borrowing , and 80 % of those be from french and latin . > from terry nadasdus i just see your post on linguist . i do n't have an exact reference , just a suggestion of where you may consider look . i just have a look at my m . a . thesis which be on english loan word in canadian french . i have a quote there which suggest that w . d . whitney may be a place you could look . the quote be as follow : " rarely have any cultivate tongue , during a like period of history give up more of its ancient material than do the english during the few century which succeed the norman invasion . . . " this quote by whitney be take from a . elliot , 1889 in an article entitle " speech mixture in french canada " , american journal of philology , vol . x , 2 " speech mixture in french canada " , american journal of philology , vol . x , 2 no . 38 . p . 158-186 . i unfortunately no longer have the article with me , but your library should have it in order that you may find the original whitney source which give actual number of loan word from french to english . thank again to ( in no particular order ) : roslyn blyn - ladrew ( jladrew @ chesco . com ) david denison ( mfcepdd @ fs1 . art . man . ac . uk ) steve seegmiller ( seegmillerm @ alpha . montclair . edu ) terry nadasdus ( tnadasdus @ gpu . srv . ualberta . ca ) burn cooper ( ffgbc @ aurora . alaska . edu ) w . h . edmondson ( w . h . edmondson @ c . bham . ac . uk ) terry lynn iron ( t . iron @ morehead-st . edu ) ( and anyone else i miss ) this be my original second post about the evolution of language : > i once read that the natural evolution of a language be from > analytic to synthetic . i ' ve be unable to find that assertion > since , and be wonder if i make it up . reply to this open question be much more vary and i ' ll quote them all . > from rob pensalfinus ( rjpensal @ mit . edu ) : i can't comment on who may have say it , but it have probably be say . i think english serve as a counterexample to some degree , where you have a highly inflect language that lose a lot of its inflection ( verbal and nominal ) and now use preposition et al where case mark would have once do the work . i alway imagine it as a circle , so that a fully isolate language may start to incorporate certain thing and over the century become synthetic , polysynthetic even ( incorporate not only adposition but pronominal argument ) . eventually , some of the distinction encode in the inflection may be lose , some of the inflection may be lose altogether , and then the language ( we ' re talk century later again ) may use independent word ( perhap adverbial or something ) to indicate particular grammatical relation , and lo and behold you ' ve get an isolate language again . the fact that change in either direction be possible be why there be two side to debate on thing like what the ancestor australian language ( s ) may have look like . australium have both head mark ( polysynthetic ) language and dependent ( case - ) mark language , as well as language that be a mixture of the two . some people think that the original language be dependent mark and that truncation and cliticisation of pronoun lead to head-mark ( ken hale and i be among these people ) , while other people take the equally valid view that the ancestor be synthetic and that case mark develop in conjunction with the loss of head mark . hope this be of some use , rob carl mill ( carl . mill @ uc . edu ) write : i do n't know who make up this " theory , " but they be probably wrong . on this view , what happen to english between ca . 800 and ca . 1500 ? ? > from peter daniel ( pdaniel @ press-gopher . uchicago . edu ) : there be some remark on this in the new book by anatole lyovin , * introduction to the language of the world * ( oxford , 1997 ) ; i do n't remember whether he give reference . but the notion of progress between type be certainly find in max muller . i believe it be folks like boa who lay it to rest ; meanwhile the romance future formation cycle have be notice , and if high - class language like latin and french could oscillate between analytic and synthetic , then obviously it could n't be an evolutionary sequence ! > from john halloran ( seagoat @ pop . primenet . com ) : a trend from agglutinative to inflective be identify by bernard h . bichakjian in his article " evolutionary pattern in linguistics " which appear in study in language origin , vol 2 , ed . walburga von raffler - engel , jan wind , and abraham jonker ( amsterdam / philadelphium : john benjamin , 1991 ) , pp . 187-224 . he also identify some other trend in linguistic evolution . geoffrey sampson ( geoff @ cog . susx . ac . uk ) write : my memory be that adalbert schleicher , who be the first writer to describe language evolution as a natural process akin ( or even identical ) to biological evolution , think of the movement from analytic to synthetic as a decay which come about after the intellectual progress of mankind have attain a point at which it no longer need to be support by specific linguistic structure - - and that this be link to theme in hegel 's philosophy , about which i be deeply vague . > from ian dale ( iandale @ cc . carleton . ca ) : i take it you be refer in the first instance to wilhelm von humboldt . a few quick reference . edward sapir ( language , 1921 , chapter 6 ) deal rather extensively with a rather more detail typological comparison , without specific reference to humboldt . charle f . hockett ( 1958 , a course in modern linguistic , p181 ) dismiss such idea out of hand , without give a reference . r . h . robin ( 1964 , general linguistic : an introductory survey , pp 331 - 335 ) also discuss this sort of classification and do refer specifically to humboldt 's " ueber die verschiedenheit de menschlichen sprachbau , berlin , 1836 ( reprint darmstadt , 1949 . " but as to any sort of " natural evolution " , all ( and i imagine this " all " would include nearly all linguist ) agree that this be out of the question , especially if " evolution " have anything to do with " progress , " and especially since most language display both synthetic and analytic feature ( not to speak of such other term as polysynthetic , agglutinative , isolate , and inflect ) . > from asya pereltsvaig ( asya @ mail . netvision . net . il ) hi , i do n't know if it 's of any help to you or it will just confuse you , but i remember read somewhere of just the opposite approach : that language develop from synthetic to analytic . however , i can't address you to a reference right now . laurie bauer ( laurie . bauer @ vuw . ac . nz ) write : if it be , the history of romance from latin need some explanation - - or english from germanic , for that matter . yet if you consider french le livre , je l ' aus lu , mous in term of phonology instead of traditional word break , we could argue that we have le _ livre je _ l ' aus _ lu mous in three word , the middle one of which be synthetic , derive from a more analytic j ' aus lu le livre . so we find both direction occur naturally . whew ! thank to everyone . this have show me that there be no simple answer and that i should just as likely believe the opposite as what i think i have read . m melanie misanchuk department of french italian and spanish university of calgary calgary , alberta , canada
