Subject: keep america online online

this be not spam ; you be receive this message because you be a member of a safemail list . if you do not wish to be a part of this listclick here - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - aol antus - timer keep america online online ! this software work with all version of aol and all version of window . you decide when to log off . take control of your service . unlimit free updates e-mail directly to you when necessary . features : click the aol timer box automatically to keep you on-line indefinitely . you be now free to stay log on to aol for as long as you want . you be not force to stop what you be do every time the silly box pop up . stop getting dumped in the middle of download file . work with aol minimize ( disable your screen saver ) . receive your e-mail instantly and hear " you ' ve got mail " . get the " unlimit service " you be pay for . free updates to aol antus - timer provide periodically vium direct e-mail as necessary . personal e-mail support if you be have difficulty . same day delivery vium e-mail with visa , mastercard or check order . work with window 95 + 98 and all version of aol . click status bar to monitor " alway on aol " activity show event and time . * please do not email your credit card information . keep read for instruction on how to order . news flash : on september 16 , 1998 aol revise the aol timer make all exist antus - timer obsolete and ineffective . all exist " aol antus - timer " subscriber have already receive , vium direct e-mail and free of charge , the update version of " aol antus - timer " which defeat the new aol timer . make sure the next aol antus - timer you purchase will clear the new aol timer and all future aol timer . " aol antus - timer " be the last anti-timer you will ever need to buy because once you purchase it you will receive unlimit free updates e-mail directly to you when ever aol revise its timer or when necessary . take control of your service for only $ 30 . 0 dollar . for more information or to order please click here if have trouble log on to our url please email us request information regard aol anti-timer click here
