Subject: lexical semantic system - deat change

change of date and extended deadline - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - wlss98 ii workshop on lexical semantics systems pisa , 6 - 7 april 1998 scuolum normale superiore - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - organize by celi , ilc , itc-irst and scuolum normale superiore with the support of university of pisa and xerox research centre europe - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - http : / / celus . sn . it / ~ wlss98 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - invited speakers ( provisional list ) gennaro chierchium ( university of milan ) christiane fellbaum ( princeton university ) ewan klein ( university of edimburgh ) hinrich schuetze ( rank xerox ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - call for papers wlss98 be organize by centro per l ' elaborazione del linguaggio ed informazione ( celi ) , istituto dus linguistica computazionale ( ilc ) , istituto per la ricerca scientifica e tecnologium ( itc-irst ) and scuolum normale superiore ( pisa ) , and will take place in pisa on the 6 - 7 april 1998 ( instead of the 19-20 march , as it be announce in previous message ) . wlss workshop aim at bring together italian and international scholar , active in both theoretical and applicative domain of research in lexical semantics , with the goal of : - provide an overview of the state of the art and exchange information on ongo and plan activity ; - bridge the gap and enhance the trade-off between theoretical model of lexical knowledge and application in nlp system . these goal be justify : - by the increasingly central position that lexical knowledge , and in particular lexical semantics , be assume within the general architecture of cognitive system , both as a dynamic module which interact with other non-linguistic source of knowledge , and as a component play a major role in interface syntax and semantics ; - by the fact that lexical resource ( such as tag corpus , computational dictionary , machine readable dictionary , wordnet ) be among the most crucial aspect of practical nlp system . issue concern the structure , the representation , the development , and the acquisition of lexical knowledge be thus of the uttermost importance when build nlp system . lexical system also play a crucial role in the design and construction of multilingual system , a key feature at least for application design to operate in a distribute , non - centralize environment such as the world wide web . this second edition of wlss will focus on the portability and reusability of lexical system , and on the issue of word sense disambiguation and semantic tag . we also encourage the submission of papers concern more general issue about linguistic lexical semantics and its interaction with computational lexicography . abstract be invite for 30 - minute talk . here follow a non - exhaustive list of topic which could be address : * lexical resource for semantic tag and word sense disambiguation . * use of lexicon and thesaurus to improve information retrieval / extraction technique . * automatic acquisition and management of lexical resource . * reusability and tun of exist lexical resource for novel task . * trade off between generic and domain specific lexical resource . * multilingual lexical resource . * description and evaluation of exist tool and system . * evaluation of different representation format . * issue in computational lexical semantics and computational lexicography . * issue in the design , construction and use of lexical resource . * architecture for a cognitive plausible lexicon * lexical representation and the interface with syntactic process * * change * * extended deadline for submissions * * change * * only electronic submission be accept . abstract should not exceed 2 page in length , in postscript or ascii format , and should be send to the follow address : wlss98 @ celus . sn . it . separate information should be send , include the title of the talk , author 's name , address and affiliation . submission must be limit to a maximum of one individual and one join abstract per author . the deadline be : 20 january 1998 . the program committee intend to publish a selection of the papers present at the conference . * * change * * important dates * * change * * submission of abstract : 20 january 1998 notification of acceptance : 28 february 1998 conference : 6 - 7 april 1998 program committee pier marco bertinetto ( scuolum normale superiore ) nicoletta calzolarus ( ilc ) luca dinus ( celi ) vittorio di tomaso ( celi ) alessandro lencus ( scuolum normale superiore ) bernardo magninus ( irst ) fabio pianesus ( irst ) frederique segond ( xrce ) antonio zampollus ( ilc ) contact persons for every further information please contact the conference secretariat : vittorio di tomaso celi ditomaso @ sn . it alessandro lencus scuolum normale superiore lencus @ alphalinguistica . sn . it scuolum normale superiore laboratorio dus linguistica piazza deus cavalierus 7 56126 pisa ( italy ) tel . + 39 50 509219 fax : + 39 50 563513 more information on the workshop and a copy of this call for papers be available on the web at the follow address : http : / / celus . sn . it / ~ wlss98
