Subject: scil 10

call for papers . student conference in linguistic 10 special theme : linguistic in cognitive science keynote speaker : lilum gleitman june 6 - 7 , 1998 northwestern university the 10th annual student conference in linguistic will be hold at northwestern university in june 1998 . scil be a student-run conference run which aim to bring together graduate student from around the world to present their research and build connection with other student . the proceedings be publish in the mit work paper in linguistic . we invite original , unpublish work in any area of linguistics . we would particularly like to encourage submission which border other discipline , in keep with the conference theme . this include , but be not limit to , psycholinguistic , computational linguistics , anthropological linguistics , speech perception and language acquisition . guideline for submission : please submit ten copy of a one-page , 500 - word , anonymous abstract for a twenty-minute paper ( optionally , one additional page for datum and / or reference may be append ) , along with a 3 " by 5 " card with : ( 1 ) your name , ( 2 ) your affiliation , ( 3 ) your address , phone number , and e-mail address , ( 4 ) the title of the paper , and ( 5 ) an indication of which subdivision of linguistics best describe the topic ( e . g . , phonetic , phonology , syntax , semantic , psycholinguistic , anthropological linguistic , computational linguistic , etc . ) the abstract should be as specific as possible , and it should clearly indicate the datum cover , outline the argument present , and include any broader implication of the work . the deadline for receipt of abstract be friday march 13 . send abstract to : scil 10 department of linguistic northwestern university 2016 sheridan road evanston , il 60208 e - mail abstract will be accept in ascii only . the email message should also contain your name , affiliation , address , phone number , and e-mail address , the title of your paper , and the area of linguistics within which it fall . email abstract should be submit to scil @ ling . nwu . edu by 5pm on march 13 . further information be available at http : / / www . ling . nwu . edu / ~ scil . question can be direct to scil @ ling . nwu . edu .
