Subject: sle 98 st . andrew

invitation to workshop during the 31st sle conference at st . andrew , 26-30 august , 1998 workshop organizer : werner abraham , groningen ( e - mail : abraham @ let . rug . nl , fax : + 31-50 - 363 58 21 ) workshop topic : ` spoken and write language ; their structural and typological differeence ' the workshop aim at presentation in the follow subfield to the general title : parse strategy divide between speak and write vernacular ; typological difference and historical change initiate by parse rather than logical-structu - ral trigger ( such as , as the underwrite himself will claim in a contribution to the workshop , the upper german preterite decay ) ; typological difference be - tween genetically closely relate language such as afrikaans , yiddish and dial - ectal german ( more or less strongly svo ) v . write german ( sov ) ; what me - diate between sov and svo other than ( charle frie ' claim ) distinction of mor - phological case ? it will be show in the paper refer to above that distinction of a discourse-functional sort and their prerequsite in structural term ( wide middle field ! ) can contribute to the upkeep of sov despite the fact that case morphology be rather weak ( dialectal german and dutch ) . organization : ( especially younger ) colleague interest should contact organizer at groningen with an abstract cover an adjacent topic no longer than one page ( for a 20-30 minute presentation ) . the intention be to submit a collection of the - matically unify papers to fol as a self-contain volume . heed : to attend the conference you need to be a member of the societa linguistica europaea . please contact the local organizer , dr . christopher beedham and dr . isabel forb , dept . of german , school of modern language , the university , st . andrew , fife ky16 9ph , scotland / uk , cb1 @ st-and . ac . uk , fax ( 732 ) 46 36 77 , home page : http : / / www . st-and . ac . uk / academic / modlang / sle98 / sle98 . html mail to : werner abraham , duit - letteren - rug , oude kijk in ' t jat straat 26 , nl-9712 ek groningen
