Subject: workshop announcement

call for papers distribute and access linguistic resource workshop immediately before the first international conference on language resource and evaluation ( lrec ) , may 27 1998 granada , spain http : / / www . icp . grenet . fr / elra / conflre . html short description : this workshop will discuss way to increase the efficacy of linguistic resource distribution and programmatic access , and work toward the definition of a new method for these task base on distribute process and object-orient model with deployment on the www . organizer : yorick wilk , hamish cunningham , wim peter , remus zajac workshop scope and aim - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - in general the reuse of of nlp datum resource ( such as lexicon or corpus ) have exceed that of algorithmic resource ( such as lemmatiser or parser ) . however , there be still two barrier to datum resource reuse : 1 ) each resource have its own representation syntax and correspond programmatic access mode ( e . g . sql for celex , c or prolog for wordnet , sgml for the bnc ) ; 2 ) resource must generally be install locally to be usable ( and of course precisely how this happen , what operate system be support etc . vary from case to case ) . the consequence of 1 ) be that although resource share some structure in common ( lexicon be organise around word , for example ) this commonality be waste when it come to use a new resource ( the developer have to learn everything afresh each time ) and that work which seek to investigate or exploit commonality between resource ( e . g . to link several lexicon to an ontology ) have to first build a layer of access routine on top of each resource . so , for example , if we wish to do task-base evaluation of lexicon by measure the relative performance of an information extraction system with different instantiation of lexical resource , we may end up write code to translate several different resource into sql or sgml . the consequence of 2 ) be that there be no way to " try before you buy " : no way to examine a datum resource for its suitability for your need before licence it . correspondingly there be no way for a resource provider to expose limit access to their product for advertise purpose , or gain revenue through piecemeal supply of section of a resource . this workshop will discuss way to overcome these barrier . the proposer will discuss a new method for distribute and access language resource involve the development of a common programmatic model of the various resource type , implement in corba idl and / or java , along with a distribute server for non-local access . this model be be design as part of the gate project ( general architecture for text engineer : http : / / www . dc . shef . ac . uk / research / group / nlp / gate / ) and go under the provisional title of an active creole server . ( creole : collection of reusable object for language engineer . currently creole support only algortihmic object , but will be extend to datum object . ) a common model of language datum resource would be a set of inheritance hierarchy make up a forest or set of graph . at the top of the hierarchy would be very general abstraction from resource ( e . g . lexicon be about word ) ; at the leave would be datum item that be specific to individual resource . programmatic access would be available at all level , allow the developer to select an appropriate level of commonality for each application . note that although an excite element of the work could be to provide algorithm to dynamically merge common resource ( e . g . connect wordnet to celex ) , what we ' re suggest initially be not to develop anything substantively new , but simply to improve access to exist resource . this be not a new standard initiative , but a way to build on previous initiative . of course , the production of a common model that fully express all the subtlety of all resource would be a large undertake , but we believe that it can be do incrementally , with useful result at each stage . early version will stop decompose the object structure of resource at a fairly high level , leave the developer to handle the datum structure native to the resource at the leave of the forest . there should still be a substantial benefit in uniform access to higher level strucure . draft program committee - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - yorick wilk hamish cunningham wim peter remus zajac roberta catizone paolum velardus maria teresa pazienza louise guthrie roberto basilus brun boguraev sergeus nirenburg jame pustejowsky ralph grishman christiane fellbaum paper submission - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - formatting guidelines : paper should not exceed 4000 word or 10 page . hard copies : three hard copy should be send to : gill callaghan , fao yorick wilk dept . computer science university of sheffield regent court 211 portobello st . , sheffield s1 4dp uk electronic submission : electronic submission will be allow in poscript or html . an ftp site will be available on demand . author should send an info email to ( yorick wilk ) even if they submit in paper form . an electronic submission should be accompany by a plain ascius text . # name : name of first author # title : title of the paper # pages : number of page # files : name of file ( if also submit electronically ) # note : anythe you 'd like to add # keys : keyword # email : email of the first author # abstr : abstract of the paper # . . . . . . important dates paper submission deadline ( hard copy / electronic ) february 15th 1998 paper notification april 1st camera - ready paper due may 1st dalr workshop may 27st
