Subject: chicago phonetic and phonology ( chus ) 98 call

chus - - the phonetic and phonology group at the university of chicago - - provide a forum for discuss fundamental question in speak language research . last year , over 100 people join us for a day-long panel on whether speech be special . this year , as part of the 34th annual meet of the chicago linguistic society , we examine how language acquisition datum should be incorporate into phonological and phonetic theory . chus ' 98 saturday , april 18 , chicago , illinoi the acquisition of spoken language " the ideal relationship between central and developmental portion of a field would be one in which the investigator in each . . . would construct model child who be capable of develop into adult and , conversely , model adult who could have develop from child " ( menn , 1980 ) . * which provide a better measure of a speaker 's successful acquisition of speech - - perceive contrast or produce them ? how be perception & production relate to linguistic competence ? * how should acquisition datum be use when formulate and evaluate phononological theory of tone and stress ? what be the prosodic primitives , and be they innate or can they be bootstrap from the signal ? * what speech process mechanism be responsible for second-language development ? are they the same as those for adult process l1 or for infant acquire it ? what do disordered phonology tell us about these mechanism ? we invite abstract that treat the acquisition of speak language as integral to the development of linguistic theory . invite speaker : jame flege ( university of alabama at birmingham ) peter jusczyk ( john hopkin university ) robert port ( indiana university ) conference info like last year , this year 's symposium will provide ample opportunity for discussion with talk throughout the day , a box lunch , and an hour-long discussion at the end . other events that weekend include a panel on language acquisition and the lexicon on april 19 . * sophisticate connectionist models of language and acquisition provide an ideal framework for construct linguistic theory that incorporate the complex interaction between sound , symbol and meaning . * the way in which we conceptualize the organization of morphology have different implication for first and for second language acquisition . * ontogeny recapitulate phylogeny and for mature organism we look at lexical access convince cognition then recapitulate ontogeny . invite speaker : joan bybee ( university of new mexico ) david pisonus ( indiana university ) terry regier ( university of chicago ) the cls conference will also host a panel on the status of constraint in linguistic theory on april 17 , with john mccarthy and jerrold sadock . paper on phonology , morphology , and syntax , among other , will be present during the main session on april 17-19 , with diana archangelus and david dowty . send your 500-word abstract via email to rmhemphus @ midway . uchicago . edu by january 31 , 1998 . for further information , http : / / humanities . uchicago . edu / humanities / cl or http : / / gsbdrl . uchicago . edu / cl
