Subject: lrec workshop announcement

call for participation towards a european evaluation infrastructure for nl and speech . a workshop jointly organise by the european network of excellence in language and speech elsnet and the cec language engineering-4 project else to be hold on wednesday may 27 , 9 : 00-13 : 0 at the first international conference on language resources and evaluation granada , spain right now , a generic framework for semi-automatic quantitative black-box evaluation of speech and nlp system do not exist in europe . when confront to a choice , developer and user prefer to ask the opinion of local expert as any other way of process be either unrealistic or too costly . the le4 project else aim at provide developer with a generic strategy and definition of the primary build block need to implement a semi-automatic quantitative black-box evaluation scheme . prominent speaker from the field will be invite to present papers address motivation , advantage , but also problem in connection with the implementation of such an evaluation scheme at an international scale . topic include e . g . the multilingual nature of evaluation , lesson from the past ( in europe and the us ) , the need for language resource . at the workshop the first intermediate result of the else project will be present and discuss . this call serve to invite interest party to active participation in the workshop . dure the workshop , ample opportunity will be provide for the participant to react to the presentation of the else project , and the talk by the invite speaker . furthermore participant will be give the opportunity to give brief position statement . the workshop be very timely as it take place when the ec 's 5th framework programme be take shape . it be clear that the availability of a european evaluation infrastucture can be an important factor in european r&d activity , and that it can only be successful if it be organize and implement on a european scale . programme committee the workshop will be coorganize by elsnet and else . the programme committee will consist of the participant in the else le project : niel ole bernsen jean - pierre chanod khalid choukrus robert gaizauska steven krauwer isabelle de lamberterie joseph marianus klaus netter patrick paroubek martin rajman antonio zampollus contact steven krauwer tran 10 , 3512 jk utrecht , the netherland phone : + 31 30 253 6050 fax : + 31 30 253 6000 email : steven . krauwer @ let . ruu . nl registration the registration fee for the workshop will be : 10 , 0 peseta for those not attend lrec 5 , 0 peseta for those attend lrec these fee will include a coffee break and the proceedings of the workshop . participation in the workshop will be limit by the venue . request for participation will be process on a first come first serve basis . conference information general information about the conference can be find at : http : / / www . icp . inpg . fr / elra / conflre . html specific query about the conference should be direct to : lrec secretariat facultad de traduccion e interpretacion dpto . de traduccion e interpretacion c / puentezuela , 55 18002 granada , spain tel : + 34 58 24 41 0 fax : + 34 58 24 41 4 email : reli98 @ goliat . ugr . e
