Subject: inversion in romance

call for papers twenty year after the publication in linguistic inquiry of richard kayne and jean - yve pollock 's influential article on stylistic inversion , the university of amsterdam will host a workshop on inversion in the romance language . the goal of this workshop be to get a clear picture of the insight the last twenty year have produce with respect to the syntactic and interpretative principle that govern inversion and the way they interact . inversion in romance university of amsterdam 28 - 29 may 1998 holland institute of generative linguistic ( hil ) utrecht institute of linguistic ( uil ) keynote speaker : richard kayne & jean-yves pollock adriana belletti k . tarald taraldsen maria luisa zubizarreta also schedule be presentation by sergio baauw , joao costa , joost dekker , vierus samek - lodovicus and maarten de wind . to enhance the scope of the workshop , the program will include 6 presentation by select speaker . these presentation be allot approximately 30 minute . those who be interest in submit a paper contain original work on any aspect of inversion in romance be invite to send 5 anonymous copy of an abstract not exceed 2 page , plus one camera-ready original contain the author 's name , address , affiliation and e-mail address . abstract submit by e-mail or fax within the deadline be accept on condition that a camera-ready original be receive within 1 week . deadline for submission of abstract be 5 february 1998 abstract should be send to the follow address : aafke hulk university of amsterdam e - mail : inversion @ let . uva . nl department of french phone : 31-20 - 5254635 spuistraat 134 fax : 31-20 - 5254429 1012 vb amsterdam , the netherland more information can be find on the www : http : / / www . leidenuniv . nl / hil / conf / inversion organize committee : aafke hulk , deni delfitto , joost dekker , petra sleeman , el verheugd , maarten de wind . sponsor : royal dutch academy of science ( knaw ) , holland institute of generative linguistic ( hil ) , netherland organization for scientific research ( nwo ) , utrecht institute of linguistic ( uil ) .
