Subject: icslp ' 98

call for papers for the 5th international conference on spoken language processing icslp ' 98 sydney convention & exhibition centre november 30th - december 4th 1998 the icslp ' 98 conference will continue the eight year tradition of the icslp series in bring together professional from all the diverse discipline that contribute to spoken language process . it will be the premier international display of the state-of - the-art in this broad field in 1998 . the conference will build bridge between people and sub-discipline in order to create and nurture synergy that be important for the future of the field . keynote presentation and other plenary event which bring both experience and vision of multi-disciplinary attack on grand challenge in speak language process in both human and machine will contribute to our aim . a student day at which full-time student registrant may present their idea under the guidance of senior mentor be also plan . however , it be the quality of the delegate presentation which will be the major factor in make icslp ' 98 a truly landmark event . this call for papers offer to you the opportunity to be a part of this significant event . co-sponsoring societies acoustical society of america acoustical society of china acoustical society of japan acoustical society of korea association for computational linguistic association for computational linguistic and chinese language process audiological society of australium inc . australian linguistic society european speech communication association ieee signal process society international phonetic association international society for phonetic science international advisory board souguil j . m . ann , seoul national university , korea jen p . blauert , ruhr - universitaet , germany michael brooke , university of bath , unite kingdom timothy bunnell , university of delaware , usa anne cutler , max - planck - institute for psycholinguistic , netherland hiroya fujisakus , science university of tokyo , japan julium hirschberg , at&t bell laboratory , usa bjorn granstrom , royal institute of technology , sweden lin - shan lee , national taiwan university , taiwan roger moore , defence research authority , unite kingdom john j . ohalum , university of californium , berkeley , usa loui c . w . pol , university of amsterdam , netherland christel sorin , centre nationale d ' etude de telecommunication , france yoh ' ichus tohkura , atr , japan jialu zhang , academium sinica , china conference secretariat tour host conference & exhibition organiser gpo box 128 sydney nsw 2000 australia tel : + 61 2 9262 2277 fax : + 61 2 9262 3135 email : icslp98 @ tourhost . com . au submission procedure submission be invite in any of the follow technical topic area : a . human speech production , acoustic - phonetic and articulatory model b . human speech perception c . language acquisition : first and second language d . spoken language and dialogue model ; dialogue system e . isolate word recognition f . large vocabulary continuous speech recognition g . utterance verification and word spot h . speaker adaptation and normalisation in speech recognition i . speaker and language recognition ; dialect and speak style j . multilingual perception and recognition k . signal process , speech analysis and feature extraction l . robust speech process in adverse environment m . hidden markov model technique n . artificial neural network , fuzzy and evolutionary algorithm o . spoken language understand system p . text - to - speech synthesis q . prosody and emotion ; focus , stress and accent r . speech code s . spoken language generation system ; concept - to - speech t . spoken language translation system u . analysis of speech and hear disorder v . speech process for the speech - impair and hear - impair w . segmentation , label and speech corpora x . speech technology application and human - machine interface y . spoken language process and multimodality z . other area of spoken language process format of submission acceptance of papers for presentation at the conference will be on the basis of review summary . you should submit a summary of your paper comprise approximately 500 word . at the top of the page , please specify the follow : correspond author contact detail : full name full postal mail address email address fax number phone number propose paper detail : paper title author list topic id ( a - z ) four additional keyword presentation preference ( oral , poster , student day ) the topic id should be a single category from the topic list specify as an alphabetic letter ; if your submission fall within the broad area of speak language process but be not explicitly represent in the topic list , please use the z category . the four additional keyword be request in order to assist the programme committee in assign reviewer . means of submission electronic submission of summary vium the world wide web be prefer . a summary submission form be available vium url at http : / / cslab . anu . edu . au / icslp98 alternatively , a pro-forma for email submission can be obtain from this url or by email icslp98 @ tourhost . com . au . email submission should be send to icslp98 @ one . net . au . if electronic submission be not possible , postal submission ( 4 copy ) to the icslp ' 98 secretariat address specify below will be accept provide that they adhere to the above format . please do not fax submission . restrictions on submissions please note that only ascii summary write in english will be accept . do not include any attachment , graphic , or embed format command . given the large number of submission we expect to receive , anything that cannot be print directly will be reject without consideration . acknowledgment of receipt you should receive an acknowledgment of receipt within 72 hour of electronically submit your summary . if this do not happen , then you should resend your submission by email to icslp98 @ one . net . au with the word resubmission at the begin of the subject line . if an acknowledgment be still not forthcome , an email problem should be assume , and the summary submit by fax . please do not resubmit or send by fax for any other reason than lack of acknowledgment from the conference . conditions of acceptance all papers must be present in english by one of the list author . that author will be require to register no later than the full-paper submission date . summary will not be accept after the submission date . student day submissions student wish to submit papers for the sst student day should submit summary as above . these submission will be separately review and publish under the banner of the 7th australian speech science & technology conference and will also be include on the cdrom contain the icslp ' 98 proceedings . submission addresses world wide web : url = http : / / cslab . anu . edu . au / icslp98 e - mail submission : icslp98 @ one . net . au postal : icslp ' 98 secretariat , gpo box 128 , sydney , nsw 2001 , australium technical query : robert dale - email : rdale @ mpce . mq . edu . au general information : email : icslp98 @ tourhost . com . au important dates friday 1st may , 1998 paper summary due for review friday 26th june , 1998 acceptance notification friday 21st august , 1998 deadline for full-paper submission
