Subject: stock market information for you

sender : trinity venture , inc . address : 1911 westmead # 2710 , houston , tx 7707 call or fax toll free : 877-393 - 7237 hours : 9 be to 5 pm cst hi , we receive your e-mail address as someone who be interest in stock market information . this e-mail be for informational purpose only . it be not an offer to sell or solicit security . if you do not wish to receive this type of information , please click on " reply " and put " remove " in the subject . we will permanently remove your address from our database . to get more news and to help with your due diligence on abrg , go to www . yahoo . com and click on " stock quote " . then put abrg in the symbol lookup area and click on " get quote " . happy invest ! - dean casia president trinity venture , inc . news release ambra resources group inc . # 610-800 west pender street vancouver , b . c . canada v6c 2v6 symbol abrg ( otc : bb ) acquisition of venture oil & gas , inc . by ambra resources group inc . adds new projects for ambra vancouver , british columbium - may 4 , 1999 ambra resource group inc . ( otc bb : abrg ) , have acquire 50 % ownership of venture oil & gas , inc . ambra will become a 50 % owner in the property and project in which venture have an interest . the consideration for ambra 's purchase of 50 % of the capital stock of venture inc . will be one million shares of ambra common stock . as part of this acquisition , venture will assign to ambra , 50 % of its interest in the bastian bay field prospect , state lease " 9800 " no . 1 well , in plaquemine parish , louisiana . additional project will be assign to ambra by venture as ambra shall have the right at any time to request assignment of 50 % of any or all interest retain by venture in various project . the primary business of venture inc . be to acquire oil and gas property on which re-mediation or re-completion work will result in enhance recovery rate that will bring the well back to commercial production . current economic condition in the petroleum industry facilitate the acquisition of very good property which larger produce company have declare as surplus property . ambra and venture inc . be in the favorable position of be able to acquire such property while the inventory of such offering be at high level . venture be currently negotiate the acquisition of multiple oil and gas project in texa , louisiana and oklahoma , which the party anticipate will add significantly to ambra 's resource base of productive project . by the board of director john m . hickey , president contact : ambra resource group inc . investor relation : 800-698 - 3377 or 604-669 - 2723 web site : http : / / www . ambraresource . com this release be for informational purpose only . it be not an offer to sell or solicit security or product of any kind . this release may include information that could constitute forward-look statement make pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the private security litigation reform act of 1995 . any such forward-look statement may involve risk and uncertainty that could cause actual result to differ materially from any future result encompass within the forward-look statement . the material be provide by ambra resource group inc . on an " as be " basis . ambra resource group inc . expressly disclaim any and all warranty , express or imply , include without limitation , warranty of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose , with respect to the service or any material and product . in no event shall ambra resource group inc . be liable for any direct , indirect , incidental , punitive or consequential damages of any kind whatsoever with respect to the service , the material and the product . trinity venture , inc . have receive a fee of $ 5 , 0 to distribute this document . if you would like to permanently remove your e-mail address from our file call or fax us toll free at 877-393 - 7237 ; or just click on " reply " and put " remove " in the subject .
