Subject: review any book , pc or mac software pgm , consumer product and keep them !

we be celebrate our 50th issue of our inet review newsletter inet review weekly new brief may 7 , 1999 content : oklahoman pick up the piece , count the cost book , software , & consumer product reviewer need top on-line edition of national magazine best seller book list some interest article in on-line magazine hot web site , topic & trend webmaster free link offer need market rep - use your computer to earn referral income new web camera site this be a trial issue of our free opt-in weekly newsletter . the purpose of this eclectic newsletter be to alert you to interest news and information on the web . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - item # 1 : inet review need book , software , consumer product and movie reviewer . you may request any product to review and we have the publisher or manufacturer ship it to your home at no charge . you write a brief review and post it to our web site and you keep the review title . we also need individual to receive free movie review pass to your local theater to review new movie . for your free reviewer information kit please reply to this email message or to karicohen @ iname . com with the word starter 507b in the message subject line . lead stories oklahoman pick up the piece , count the cost death toll could double ; survivor sift through rubble and get ready to rebuild | photo essay www . time . com shadow in the shallow the navy 's next nuclear submarine will lurk stealthily offshore , use advance sensor and weaponry to attack land target . and it do n't need a periscope www . popscus . com if you like this article , you must read sherry sontag 's blind man 's bluff - the untold story of american submarine espionage . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - item # 2 : top on-line edition of national magazine . time magazine www . time . com fortune magazine www . fortune . com business week www . businessweek . com people magazine www . people . com popular science www . popscus . com usa today www . usatoday . com visit these great magazine site and bookmark them . check each every few day and save yourself a ton of money by not buy them from the newsstand . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - item # 3 www . amazon . com best seller list - fiction 1 . the girl who love tom gordon by stephen king 2 . a new song by jan karon 3 . hart 's war : a novel by john katzenbach 4 . the best american short story of the century by john updike ( introduction ) , et al 5 . bittersweet by danielle steel as a reviewer for inet review you may request any book and keep it after you post a brief review to our web site . inet review be one of the largest review web site on the internet . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - item # 4 - interest article on the web how the internet hits big music www . fortune . com addict to sex - www . fortune . com unmask black hole jean - pierre lasota evidence for black hole be until recently all circumstantial . distinguish them at a distance from other highly compact , gravitationally massive body such as neutron star be inherently problematic . now astronomer may have direct proof : energy be vanish from volumes of space without a trace . scientific american http : / / www . sciam . com / 1999 / 0599issue / 0599gonzalez . html - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - item # 5 : hot web site , trend & topic go to www . hotbot . com they have an mpc search engine . way ahead of the other search engine in this area . mp3 be the fastest grow segment of the web site . what be mp3 ? this be a new file compression that be the standard for compress music on the internet . it give you near cd - quality music that you can download . the music publisher hate it with a passion be try to do everything they can to squash it . so you must get a inexpensive cd-rom writer ( $ 199 after rebate at www . compusa . com ) and start download your favorite tune and make your own mix a copy them down to your own cd . i have a cable modem and can download them fast and have currently create 15 audio cd 's with my favorite tune . no longer do you have to lay out $ 15 for a cd to get one good song and 11 other filler . if you have a neat web site that you wish to share with our reader , send it to kristen @ fastermail . com with the single word webpick in the message subject line and the name of the web site and the exact url or web site address in the message body . we will give you a byline under your pick if we use it in an issue of this newsletter . webmasters only : we will pay you a $ 3 . 0 referral fee and put your link on three of our very high traffic web site . reply to this email with the word uplink in the message subject line . we will email you the complete detail . earn referral income with your home computer we have a referral program where you can use your home computer to generate significant monthly referral income . reply to this email with the single word income in the message subject line . we will send you complete information . new web cam site firm be place a web cam in the home of three young woman . this be not an xxx site but just a web cam site . if you would like a free preview please reply to this email message with the word hidden in the message subject line . we will email you instruction on how to get your free preview . if you cannot reply to our email message for any reason , please send a sase to inet review , 6050 peachtree parkway , suite 240-238 , norcross , ga 30092 , attn : starter kit desk . your free review starter kit will be mail the day we receive your self address stamp envelope . * * * * * * * * * * * * * end of inet review * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * this be an opt-in short weekly newsletter design to alert you to some mainstream news aspect of the internet and an eclectic mix of interest web topic , trend & topic . to be remove from our email database please email a message to karicohen @ iname . com with the single word remove in the message subject line . our software will remove your email address from our database . this be an opt-in newsletter trial issue . we do add all remove request to our local remove database .
