Subject: more on human subject

a number of month ago i raise the issue of deal with human subject committee , since our department be be ( as we perceive it ) hassle by our own committee . i receive numerous response , which i have since forward to the lsa social issue ( or something ) committee . the response vary from shock outrage that anyone would look over our ( collective ) shoulder from shock outrage that i would consider do any research without ask permission . the primary hassle , which be reflect again in the more recent post on the subject , be that linguistic research normally involve use a tape recorder . federal guideline require ( so i be tell ) a special , and more complex class of review if the datum be be tap . in our case , this involve a full committee review , which take two to three week , rather than the ` expedite ' review , which take only a few day . we be still negotiate on whether class project need to be clear class by class ( which we hope ) or instead , student by student . given that student normally take at least half a semester to discover what they want to do , if it will then require an additional two or three week to get permission to do it , much linguistic classroom research may get halt . i would be greatly interest in hear from people on the list who have be able to persuade their human subject committee to issue any kind of ` blanket ' permission for certain kind of research . when we suggest this possibility we be tell that nobody 's research be privilege , and that if { sociology , psychology anthropology . . . } have to go through the process , so do we . in any case , as a result of my attempt to be law abide , i almost lose an informant , whose datum i have record illegally . i ask him to recite the nursery rhyme , then request permission to do so . shortly afterward , he leave town , never to be see again . sigh . . . any suggestion on get expedite review , blanket permission , other speed up way of be permit to tape record linguistic datum without supreme court approval would be appreciate . geoff nathan < ga3662 @ siucvmb . siu . edu > southern illinoi university at carbondale
