Subject: humor and communication : call for paper

call for papers humor and communication seminar at sca , 1992 national meeting : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) : - ) the seminar will be hold wednesday , october 28th ( 9 : 30 - 5 : 30 ) in chicago precede the speech communication association national meet . call for papers : it have be establish that humor be a widespread phenomenon , encompass many , if not all , area of human communication . while research in various area be advance , several general communication-relate issue within the realm of humor remain to be explore in full . from another perspective , the study of humor be a particularly interest topic for communication , since humor usually highlight the communicative mechanism it exploit and thus provide insight that can later be generalize to the discipline at large . the follow be some topic that the sca seminar participant may want to address . 1 ) how do humor communicate ? what be the mechanism that make communication through humor possible ? a ) in order to solve the paradox of define humor as a non-cooperative mode of communication , a cooperative-cum - humor mode have be postulate ( raskin 1985 , attardo 1990 ) . is this the complete picture ? how be communication affect / distort by this particular situation ? b ) joke can convey factual information , both on the referent of the text ( zhao 1988 ) and on the participant of the communicative interchange , their perception of the situation , social hierarchy at play , etc . what be the modality and mechanism of this process ? 2 ) what do humor communicate ? humor can be use to convey mean independent from the denotation of the humorous utterance ( see for example drew 1987 on tease ) or to avoid face-threaten situation ( mulkay 1988 ) . is the range of the message carry by humor unlimit or be there an inherent " content " to a humorous message just because it be humorous ? 3 ) rhetoric ( s ) of humor . how humor be use by speaker to further their goal ( within and outside of the communicative exchange ) . humor as a tool for persuade , for divert attention , for in - and out-bond , etc . 4 ) discourse analysis of humorous exchange . the organization of a humorous exchange . how do a humorous conversational turn fit into a communicative exchange ? how be joke and humorous narrative introduce in conversation , and how do they affect its course ? the difference between can joke and conversational joke . 5 ) semiotic of humor . humor can be achieve verbally , visually , behaviorally , musically , etc . , or by any combination of the above . on the other hand , nature be never funny in and of itself ( although it may be perceive as such ) . in other word , humor be intimately connect to the human faculty of use sign . is it possible to build a general semiotic of humor ? how do the various type of humor above differ and how be they alike ? 6 ) cultural difference in the use of humor in communication . there be both impressive example of variation across culture ( for example , ritual humor be common in many society ( apte 1985 ) but almost absent in present-day western culture ) and cross-cultural invariant ( for example the dumb-joke , cf . davy 1990 ) . are there universal in humorous communication , or be the range of variation unconstrain culturally ? references : apte , mahadev . 1985 . _ humor and laughter _ ithaca and london : cornell university press . attardo , salvatore . 1990 . the violation of grice 's maxim in joke . in hall , kira et al . ( ed . ) _ proceeding of the 16th berkely linguistic society conference _ 355-362 . davy , christie . 1990 . _ ethnic humor around the world _ bloomington : indiana university press . drew , paul . 1987 . po - face receipt of tease . _ linguistic _ 25 . 219-253 . mulkay , michael . 1988 . _ on humor . it nature and its place in modern society _ cambridge : blackwell . raskin , victor . 1985 . _ semantic mechanism of humor _ dordrecht : reidel . zhao , yan . 1988 . the information convey aspect of joke . _ humor . international journal of humor research _ 1 : 3 . 279-298 . for information contact : alan harri aharri @ vax . csun . edu or salvatore attardo p5o @ mace . cc . purdue . edu submission to : alan c . harri , ph . d . telno : off : professor , communication / linguistic 818-885 - 2853 / 2874 speech communication department hm : californium state university , northridge 818-780 - 8872 spch csun fax : 818-885 - 2663 northridge , ca 91330 deadline for submission : asap and not after july 1st , 1992 .
