Subject: the " black hole " of pre - chomskyan citation

steve anderson 's new book on morphology should contain the follow - ing epigraph ( if he do n't change it before publication ) : " linguistic will become a science when linguist begin stand on one another 's shoulder instead of one another 's toe " . i think he have a point . we have reach the point where we be redo some aspect of language more poorly than they be do the first time . the problem may have originate from the fact that little have be do in syntax prior to the work of the generative school ; little , that be , in comparison to what have be do since the instigation of that movement . jakobson 's and halle 's work in distinctive feature also clearly supercede pre - vious work , make it difficult to find structuralist work relevant to what be go on today . however , anderson be right in chide us for carry this attitude over to morphology , where the current trend in and around massachusett have hardly move beyond bloomfield , the first to claim that affix be regular lexical item . first rate morphologus - cal study go back to the stoic philosopher , who be the first to tease apart grammatical category and , on a different track , back to paninus . not only be most current morphology fail to cite relevant source , it be fail to take advantage of the discovery of struc - turalist , neogrammarian , and even classical morphologist . these pre - decessor be particularly adept at find problem in the theory of the linguistic sign . varro ( 47-45 ) be the first to attempt to define lexical category in term of [ + / - n , + / - v ] as well as lexicalization . aristotle notice that grammatical morpheme differ from lexical one and the stoic first use the term " signifier " and " signify " . i be jump into the middle of this discussion but i think mark have touch the real issue : it be less that chomsky and other member of his school be quote so much than that many other who make contrus - bution - - often the same one - - be quote to little . the result which i be see more and more often be the second , third , fourth reinvention of the wheel . - - rbeard
