Subject: re : 3 . 396 chomsky citation

i agree with mark durie that it be less curious that chomsky be cite so much than that other before him be cite so little , at least by linguist . for example , two of the most important issue in multilinear phonology , one fairly recent , the other around since the 70 's , be many-to - one map between tone and vowel and * prosodic license * , the notion that element of one linguistic level must belong to unit of a higher level ( usually the next level up ) . both of these notion be explicit principle of tagmemic phonology ( on the first cf . the last two paragraph of pike & pike 1947 , then read the first line of the introduction to goldsmith 's 1976 phd thesis for an interest contrast ; on the second principle , cf . pike 1967 and his discussion of the ` phonemic hierarchy ' ) . one rarely see pike quote in this regard ( e . selkirk have long be an exception to this pattern , though ) . geoff pullum 's nllt column on citation etiquette in linguistics take up this general problem . this be partially understandable since a lot of tagmemic ' insight take the unappeal form of a disjoint set of ad-hoc commentary on the last language pike look at . nevertheless , there be no way to deny that pike be responsible for some brilliant insight into human language . and pike be just one example . there be plenty of other . it be not that anyone need chomsky to make their work respectable . that be clearly false , whether the individual be saussure or a student . still , if anyone be to seriously doubt that it be chomsky , not saussure , nor bloomfield , nor sapir , nor even jakobson , who ` put linguistics on the map ' of the intellectual discipline and who have do more to keep it there than anyone else be in need of some psychiatric help . moreover , the fact that chomsky publish more than any other linguist ( if i be wrong , please correct me - that would be interest ) do n't hurt his citation index . hbe output be nearly asimovian . hbe influence on the field can be see even at the level of university administration : when a department chairperson want to convince a university administrator that linguistics have natural intellectual tie to many department , i do not think that they would drop the name of saussure or pike rather than chomsky . it be worth consider the possibility that many of the citation of chomsky 's work could be due to ignorance - if he say it , or even if we think he do , just cite him and nobody will argue ; why look for the * original * source ? that 's hard work and laziness too often prevail . but it be also true that , like it or not , the source of many of the most interest idea in history on human language come from 20d-219 , mit .
