Subject: integration and disintegration in phonological theory

dan everett 's comment on my dissertation ( as i ' ve point out to him ) , and by implication on how that work fit into the work of its antecedent , be mislead . dan be for some reason allude to the fact that in the mit version of the dissertation ( though not the one that have circulate from the iulc or publish by garland , which be the one usually cite ) i mention in the acknowledgement that my interest in tone start with read will leben 's 1973 dissertation : a true fact . but the dissertation itself have a chapter , the first , entirely devote to the proposition that this work be a continuation of a discussion that have be go on in american phonology since the 1940 ! dan , i think , see pike as the most important theoretician to cite in that period ; in my write , i ' ve focus more on bloch , harri , and ( in my 1980 book ) on hockett , rather than pike , but this be more a matter of style and taste than anything else . [ on the same theme , i have a paper come out ( perhap it have come out already ) in the journal of linguistic on the genealogical connection between prosodic ( firthian ) phonology and autosegemmental phonology . ] dan have also point out that some of the major contributor to phonology during this period who be still very much alive and intellectual active have feel slight by the lack of citation of their work . as i try to suggest in my paper on firthian phonology , this be more an indictment of normal human expectation of courtesy than it be the result of people actually forget about these phonologist ' good , publish idea ( there be much less of that latter sin than many people wish to believe - - a point that geoff huck and i have make in a recent paper on the relation of generative semantic to current syntactic theory ) . however - - and again from a purely human point of view - - i wonder how many people , like myself , who be publish material on nonlinear phonology in , say , its first ten year ( 1975 to 1985 ) ever receive a note from one of these contributer to the literature in the 1940 and 1950 ? speak just for myself , i be sure i would have be galvanize to have be drop a note by . . . any of a number of linguist ; in more recent year , i ' ve have the opportunity to discuss the history of the field , in write and in person , with a number of these linguist . but i would have be absolutely delight to have receive such a comment , a bite of mild reproof perhap from an establish contributor ( who , now , i can perceive as feel leave out ) . i never do . anyone else ? john goldsmith
