Subject: 3 . 405 language , citation

let me respond in general to the " do you speak many language ? " issue . let 's extend the statistician analogy . let 's say we ask our statistician , " do you care about the individual datum point ? " s : ye , as long as they contribute to my model i : but you see yourself as independent of the datum ? s : ye , as a statitician , my function be to discover the underlie structure from the datum point . if i collect environmental datum from bar harbor maine , it be no more important than if i do from seymour , indiana . what be significant be the rule , structure and theory which can be make from the individual datum point . i : doe the domain ( ie . subject area ) matter to you ? s : not except for some sentimental reason . whether it be environmental datum or the performance of computer system , it be all the same . the methodology be what matter . i : would you object to be a special branch of mathematics or computer science ? s : no , no . statistic be quite different . i : ultimately , be n't you justy apply mathematical method under a different guise ? s : but the environment is different than anything else . i : have n't you just contradict yourself ? s : let me rephrase then : the result have different effect depend on subject matter . i : but you be not concern with the individual in bar harbor , for whom particulate or acid rain be a large concern . you do n't want to understand the datum nor make decision base on it ? s : no , that be too remorselessly practical . i be a theoretician . i prefer to develop theory about statistics rather than gain any understand of what , say . 1 m v . 5 m particulate means in a give area . i focus on know about rather than know . if this ( fairly transparent ) dialogue do not make the point , let me add this ( more topical ) reference . if i know that the line : spargen humida mellum soporiferumque papaver , and write a paper that say sparg + e + n ( present participle marker ) humid + a ( neuter plural marker ) then develop a rule for the grammar use in this piece , rewite it in the phonetic alphabet , i will know a lot , from the point of whatever linguistic area i be come from ( transformational grammar , phonetics , etc ) . and i can develop a rather * wonderful * description of the language use . but i think it be ultimately inadequate : for this line ( from virgil 's 4th aeneid ) be not the same as a mathematical datum point of . 5 ppm . there be a vast difference between a formalize description of something , of know about language , and know a language . * translation : sprinkle moist honey and sleep-bear poppy .
