Subject: soas cease all publication and cancel linguistic !

forward from indology : deat : wed , 20 may 92 14 : 25 : 6 + 64 reply - to : indology discussion list < indology @ liverpool . ac . uk > sender : owner of indology < qq43 @ liverpool . ac . uk > from : dominik wujastyk < ucgadkw @ ucl . ac . uk > on monday this week the management committee of soas decide to close the soas publication ' department , and also the department of linguistic . later the same day , all staff member connect with these department be give notice that their contract would terminate in september 1992 . this means that the bulletin of soas , a pillar of indological publication , will disappear , along with all other book series etc . discussion will be initiate with publisher like blackwell and oup to see if they want to take over bsoas , china forum , etc . but it be hard to see how any publish company will be able to provide the specialize editorial function which have until now be support by soas . the loss of the complete linguistic department be equally horrific . the background to this - - as far as i can gather - - be further cause for alarm . apparently soas have alway receive an annual special fund supplement because the department of education recognise that oriental and african language be need by the nation , but will never get the student number of other mainstream subject . this enable soas to have a higher staff : student ratio than other college of london university . this year , the university fund council ( ufc ) forget to pay the special fund supplement , leave soas with a financial shortfall of 650 , 0 pound this year . but when the clerical error be discover , the ufc refuse to make good the amount , and furthermore decide that it would not reinstate the special fund in the future . soas 's response to this be to save money on the most expensive part of their budget , namely staff salary . i think indology member will agree that the whole story be incredible for many reason , but nevertheless it be true . it be hard to avoid the impression of farcical mismanagement by the ufc and a devastatingly inadequate response from soas itself . perhap there be mitigate fact that have not yet come to light , but if so , they be not know to the staff member at soas who have be sack , nor to other staff member . letter of protest should be address to mr . michael mcwilliam , director , school of oriental and african study , thornhaugh street , russell square , london wc1h 0xg england . dominik
