Subject: closing of academic dept and layoff at san diego state

on may 13 , san diego state university , face a probable 8 . 5 % budget cut from state fund , amount to about an $ 11 million shortfall , announce major elimination of , and cut in , academic program . these cut entail layoff of tenure faculty . due to be shut down , with layoff of all faculty , be the department of anthropology , german&russian , religious study , natural science ( train high school science teacher ) , family study & consumer science , aerospace engineer , health science , and industrial study . schedule for cut of faculty , of vary scale , in within-dept reverse order of seniority , be the department of french&italian ( 3 of 11 ) , sociology ( 8 of 27 ) , math ( 8 of 60 or so ) , and chemistry ( 14 of 23 ) . the policy be to cut " narrowly and deeply . " although discussion have be go on all year in the senate about the potential for serious fund cut and way this university may respond to them , include program cut , these cut be announce suddenly , with no prior consultation with the affect department . official notice to individual faculty member of layoff be schedule for " mid - june . " > from that time laid-off faculty will have 120 day remain on the payroll . the athletic department be eliminate golf , track and field , and one or two other minor sport , a cut of about $ 200 - $ 250k . the football and basketball program be untouch ; the baseball program have lose a number of scholarship ( accord to this morn 's sport section of the san diego union - tribune ) . at this point there be no word of cut in administration . cut in the school of business have apparently be trivial in comparison with those suffer by the college of art and letter , the college of science , and other college . some affect faculty be contemplate legal action , and other remedy be be discuss . three administrative move may have some potential for reverse the layoff : cut ( or eliminate ) intercollegiate athletics , institute a golden handshake program , and institute a university-wide salary reduction of up to 10 % . although the union be currently negotiate a golden handshake program , we do n't know how far along the negotiation be and whether it will be possible to put it in place quickly enough to have an effect on the current crisis . there be legal and adminstrative problem with the salary cut . we do n't know whether they ' re surmountable or not . the whole californium state university system - - 20 campus , include the new one at san marco in northern san diego county - - face the same fund shortfall , but apparently ( we have at this point hardly any information ) campus response vary a good deal . we ask that you consider write to pre . thoma b . day , san diego state university , san diego , ca 92182 , express outrage at this unprecedent frontal assault on tenure and the centrality of academic to the university . if the attack be allow to stand , the consequence for higher education within californium and everywhere be incalculable . more importantly , we ask that you write to californium state legislator and state senator . we will provide name and address if you contact us . we would be grateful for copy of any correspondence send in connection with this crisis . we be send this information out now , incomplete though it be , in order that linguist may be inform as early as possible in this develop crisis . jeff kaplan charlotte webb ( chair , linguistic and oriental language dept )
