Subject: re : 3 . 399 human subject

when our graduate seminar in linguistic of asl be prepare to videotape deaf native signer , at berkeley in the late seventy , our " inform consent " form have to specify what use we may eventually make of the tape and datum and request the subject ' assent to them . one aspect of that experience bear on the question of adult with low literacy . we all write our own form . one member of the seminar focus on the legal and contractual nature of the document and write a very legalese text , in the formal style distinctive of law and contract and incorporate many of the obscure and highly formal archaism often note therein : - ) . ( example make up from memory : " . . . wherea the party of the first part may at some future time herein unspecify desire to exhibit such tape . . . " ) . another student , keep in mind the low english skill of many deaf people , write a form that tend to short , conversational statement and question ( " . . . i may want to show part of these tape to other linguist so i can tell them about the thing i find out about asl . is that ok with you ? please initial : yes _ _ _ _ or no _ _ _ _ . . . . " ) the consensus of the group be that the second style be much preferable . it 's perfectly possible to be precise without be complex or obscure , and a document that your subject can't understand run a great risk of obtain consent without provide information . i ' m not sure how we handle the issue of subject unable to understand even a simple - english form , or whether it come up . we may have have a certify interpreter explain it to the prospective subject and discuss it to be sure the subject understand , while videotape this whole discussion , and have the interpreter start by explain that we were tap and get the subject 's consent to that . this tape would then accompany the sign ( = " signature " ) consent form . mark a . mandel dragon system , inc . : speech recognition : + 1 617 965-5200 320 nevada st . : newton , mass . 1136 , usa
