Subject: close linguistic at soas call for help ! ! !

soas department of phonetic and linguistic to be close in october 1992 dear colleague , on tuesday may 19 , dr david bennett , head of our department , be tell that we would cease function as of october of this year . we be a department of the school of oriental and african study of the university of london . the member of our department be : dr david bennett prof thea bynon dr wynn chao dr monik charette dr katrina hayward dr richard hayward * dr george hewitt * * dr bruce ingham prof jonathan kaye prof ruth kempson * cross appoint with the africa department * * cross appoint with the near and middle east department our department offer degree at the ba , ma , mphil and phd level . approximately 60 student , mostly at the postgraduate level be enroll . many other student , particularly from university college , london ( ucl ) take course with us . we run an ma - linguistic and an ma - phonetic programme jointly with ucl . we also have an ma in english - arabic apply linguistic and translation together with birbeck college . all these program will of course be affect by this decision . the department of phonetic and linguistic be the oldest linguistic department in the u . k . it be the home of the " london school " which receive worldwide attention under the intellectual leadership of prof jr firth . hbe chair , which i occupy today , be the first chair of linguistic in the u . k . over the year our graduate have distinguish themselve in many area of linguistics . later posting will provide a partial list of the more well know soas graduate . it be acknowledge , even by the administration of soas , that we remain a centre of academic excellence in our field . the decision to close the soas linguistic department be make with no consultation , no advance warn . it be a result of discussion by the govern body of the school , the finance and general purpose committee and the management committee . there be no linguistic representation on any of these body . the reason give for close the department be : ( 1 ) severe budget cut ( 2 ) our low number of undergraduate student ( 3 ) the " general perception " that our department be not well integrate into the school . it be state that , among the option consider close our department would cause the " least harm " to the school . no one be present to represent the linguistics side of the story . this decision will be present to the academic board of the school on wednesday may 27 . the academic board have an advisory role only but we be hop to mobilise school opinion against this decision . unlike similar case in other country , most of the member of our department will not be redeploy elsewhere in the school . recent legislation have virtually destroy the notion of tenure in the u . k . many of us be face " premature retirement " , " redundancy " or some form of " severance " agreement . the administration of the school seem to feel that we will easily find job and that terminate our employment at the school will cause us no undue hardship . given the administration 's figure for the cost of sever their relation with us , the offer that we be likely to receive from the school will not be very attractive . as of now , no statement have be forthcome about our future at the school but the director have state that he will be meet with us individually next week . we will keep you post on this aspect . if you would like to do something to try and help us stop the close of our department , please send ( in order of preference ) a fax or a letter to me at the address and fax number give below . if possible use your institution 's letterhead . please feel free to make comment about our department as a whole or about individual member with whose work or reputation you be familiar . pass this message along to your colleague and encourage them to write as well . if you feel so incline , departmental resolution reflect your opinion of this event would be quite helpful . i hope to be able to arrive at next wednesday 's meet with an armful of your letter ( copy of all letter will be send to our director ) and your support will do a lot to improve our spirit . this will be a long and difficult struggle both for our department and for our job and career . thank you in advance for listen and for your support . jonathan kaye professor of general linguistic department of phonetic & linguistic school of oriental and african study thornhaugh street , russell square london , wc1h 0xg u . k . e-mail : jk @ ukacrl . earn jk @ uk . ac . rl . ib ( janet ) fax number : ( 44 ) + 71-436 - 3844
