Subject: survey of narrative for person with aphasia - - addendum

colleague : this an addendum to a previous message from a friend of mine ( maureen stemmelen ) that ask subscriber to complete a survey . this clarification be in response to some query some people have regard the survey . the purpose of the survey be to gather datum from normal people in order to design better narrative elicitation task for subject with aphasia . these task will be use with american resident only , which explain the cultural bias in the survey . thank you for your participation . the survey be attach to refresh your memory as to what we be talk about ! kirrie ballard & maureen stemmelen ( maurstem @ merle . acn . nwu . edu ) survey the result from this survey will be utilize in a research project design to examine the language of aphasic speaker . result of this survey will remain confidential . please do not write your name on this form . identify information today 's date : your birth date : highest level of education : present or most recent job : male female ( asterisk one ) country of residence : part i in the space below , please list five 's tory ' from which you could recall the general plot , some of the major character , possibly some detail important to the storyline , and provide a short narration of if give some reminder of the story ( such as picture ) . these 's tory ' could be such thing as child 's book , fable or fairy tale , adult book , movie , play , etc . please fill in all of the blank . 1 . 2 . 3 . 4 . 5 . part ii please asterisk those item that you would be able to talk about in sufficient detail for approximately ten minute . asterisk all that apply . world war ii watergate your closest friend learn to drive the bomb of japan the challenger disaster vietnam apollo 11 graduate from high school the fall of communism in eastern europe your first job the gulf war kennedy 's assassination your earliest memory of school woodstock the depression the assassination of dr . martin luther king the current u . s . president your present or most recent job your first date d - day the civil rights movement the cold war your most memorable vacation thank you for your participation .
