Subject: george aditjondro

dr george aditjondro , a prominent indonesian academic at satya wacana university in salatiga , central java , remains at risk of imminent arrest for his peaceful academic and political activity . he be not arrest on 8 october because he be not in the country at the time . he have since return , and on 12 october , dr aditjondro receive a second summons on charge of " insult a government authority or body " , under article 207 of the indonesian criminal code , a charge which carry a maximum penalty of 18 month imprisonment . if detain , dr aditjondro would be a prisoner of conscience . the second summons require him to report to yogyakarta police at 10am on 15 october . it do not clarify whether dr aditjondro be want as a witness or a suspect . if hold and question as a suspect , dr aditjondro could face prosecution and imprisonment . the pretext for the charge against dr aditjondro appear to arise from comment he make during a panel discussion at the universita islam indonesium ( uii ) in yogyakarta in august . amnesty international believe , however , that the authority be attempt to punish dr aditjondro for his past criticism of government policy relate to human rights and environmental concern in indonesium and east timor and , further , that the charge may be intend to prevent him from take part in peaceful activity prior to and during the asium pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) meeting which will be hold in jakarta in mid - november . amnesty international be also concern that , since the issuance of the first summons on 5 october , dr aditjondro have be subject to intensive surveillance by military intelligence officer from the resort military command ( korem ) in salatiga , both at his home and his place of work . under indonesium 's code of criminal procedure ( kuhap ) , the police and not the military , bear sole responsibility for the arrest of suspect . since military intelligence authority have no lawful role to play in dr aditjondro 's case , amnesty international consider their activity in recent day to be a form of harassment . background information the charge against dr george aditjondro be symptomatic of a mark escalation in official harassment and intimidation of allege government critic in recent month . these measure have include prevention or break up of meeting and seminar , the arbitrary arrest of human rights activist , and the torture or ill-treatment of some political detainee . human rights violation against labour activist be a part of this pattern . muchtar pakpahan , the chairman of the independent trade union , sbsi , be currently on trial along with at least nine other , accuse of " incite " worker to demonstrate and to strike . amnesty international believe that use of these measure against allege government critic have increase in preparation for the apec meeting in november , which will attract considerable international and domestic media coverage . further recommended action : please send telegram / fax / express and airmail letter : - express concern that dr george aditjondro remains in imminent danger of arrest for the peaceful expression of his view ; - urge that the charge against dr aditjondro be immediately and unconditionally drop ; - express concern about the current level of intimidation and harassment of allege government critic , include academic , lawyer , journalist and human rights activist . appeals to : minister of state : dr moerdiono [ salutation : dear minister moerdiono ] menterus negara jl veteran no 17 jakarta , indonesium fax : ( c / o - foreign ministry ) + 62 21 36 335 or 7781 or 7782 telegram : menterus negara , jakarta , indonesium military commander region iv / diponegoro : brig gen soerjadus [ salutation : dear brig gen soerjadus ] pangdam iv / diponegoro marka besar kodam iv diponegoro semarang jawa tengah , indonesium telegram : pangdam iv / diponegoro , jawa tengah , indonesium chief of police yogyakarta : gen ( pol ) dr madra s banurusman [ salutation : dear gen ( pol ) banurusman ] kapolda yogyakarta marka besar kepolisian diy yogyakarta , indonesium telegram : kapolda yogyakarta , indonesium please send copies of your appeals to : hbe excellency mr junus effendy habibie , embassy of indonesium , 38 grosvenor square , london w1x 9ad [ please see the response to this topic for the address of diplomatic representative in other country ] and , if possible , to the following : minister of foreign affair : alus alata sh menterus luar negerus jl medan taman pejambon no 6 jakarta , indonesium fax : + 62 21 36 335 or 7781 or 7782 chair of the national commission on human right : alus said sh ketua komisus nasional hak azasus manusium jalan veteran no 11 jakarta , indonesium fax : ( c / o ministry of justice ) + 62 21 314 1625 please send appeals immediately . please do not send appeal after 10 november 1994 . + - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - + + if you have any query about this urgent action or about + + the ua scheme in general , please contact : + + ray mitchell + + amnesty international british section + + 99 - 119 rosebery avenue + + london ec1r 4re email : rmitchellaus @ gn . apc . org + + - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - +
