Subject: re : 5 . 1196 corpus analysis of - body / - one

it seem to me altogether possible , even likely , that there be the follow interaction , namely , that the particular lexical form < everybody > have come to acquire , for many speaker certainly ( me , for instance , a quasus native speaker , and i share ellen prince 's intuition concern her sentence # 1 ) a distinctly collective sense , wherea < every - one > maintain , again for these speaker at least , a distributive sense , at least as a live option . thus 1 ' . everybody come , bring their respective wife . seem especially good , though , oddly enough maybe , this instantiate the special claim that , for this particular lexical - body item , the formal / informal register distinction have at least contextually ? ) collapse . now , it seem plausible , but no more than that in the present state of knowledge ( or of ignorance ) that there be a more underlie interaction , namely , that there may be something more naturally colloquial about use a collective rather than a distribute plural when an option present itself . actually , this follow from an algebraic , non - fregean view of quantification , which i have write on but cannot go into ion this message , save to indicate summarily that it be a capital mistakme to imagine that , for instance , the same semantical reopresentation ought to apply , even for logico-deductive application , to say , < each / every > and < all > , respectively . thus , invoke a correspndence that i shall not unpack here , i . everybody bring their wife / * everybody bring his wife i ' . they all bring their ( respective ) wife / each man bring his wife . ius . * each man bring their wife / they each bring their ( respective ) wife . this surely suggest , do it not , that the interaction under review be distinctly asymmetrical ( or , i think , rather , non-symmetrical ) , for , the < each > form of quantification , by logical entailment of a fairly obvious kind ( from the distribute , that be , serial , mean , to the collective / mass , can take a collective sense , wherea the reverse ( you cannot non-arbitrarily unpack a mass b ecause there be no algorithm in this direction correspnd to the seial addition inherent in the other direction ) be not available . all , then , ( and the other collective-sense quantifier and the nominal that condense such quantifier ( as in the body case ) quantiify , i . e . , select as a choice function , over a power set , choose the element equivalent to the improper 's ubset of the whole ' . each - type quantification be over the element of a set , take the index ' i ' rang , algebraically , successively from 1 ( or , in some case , 0 ) to n , the cardinality of the set in question . f . k . l . chit hlae
