Subject: threaten sudan language ii .

threaten sudan language : response > from roger blench , cambridge i would like to thank the many people who respond to my post on threaten language of kordofan . it seem there be a large unsatisfy need out there to work with real speaker in situ , which be very encourage for individual such as myself who often feel maroon in the arid waste of theory . i be attempt to set up a direct email address for those who have express interest and we will attempt to sort and answer all the query with more detail information as soon as possible . i append to this a few reflection occasion by the response which you can ignore . 1 . of all the country mail the one major nation from which there be absolutely no response be england . this be disappoint , but not at all surprise . i have alway suspect that both anthropology and field linguistics in england be closely bind up with the empire and that now the empire have go , inward-look have become the rule . anthropology i have have to largely discard now that the seminar room be awash with post-modernist chitchat , while linguistics seem bend on disappear up its own theoretical orifice . 2 . the evident desire to go out and work with informant in context in order to actually assist community ( as oppose to the parade of taxi-driver informant who have provide much of the " african " language material these last few year , especially in north america ) make one ask why field linguistics have such a low prestige and why the make of dictionary and the preparation of reference grammar be a barely acceptable activity ( as measure by the difficulty in get these publish ) . 3 . i post a message about sudan , but every african country have threaten language that require immediate attention . my work on the language atla of nigerium ( finally publish recently ) have make me aware of at least 50 language in nigerium that be close to extinction . why , for example , be it easier to hold conference and make up committee on threaten language than to actually pay somebody to go out and do some basic work ? thank you again for the encourage response . roger blench
