Subject: ua appeal : arief budiman

urgent action appeal : re : the unhonorable discharge of dr . arief budiman from university of satya wacana , salatiga , indonesium dr . arief budiman , one of the most consistent defender of freedom of speech in indonesium and an outspoken critic of indonesian government , be fire from his position as a senior lecturer in the post graduate department at the christian university of satya wacana ( uksw ) , salatiga , indonesium . the letter of dismissal that will take effect on october 31st , 1994 , be issue on october 17th , and be cosign by prof . haryono semangun ( chairman ) and dr . nelky oemboe nganggoe ( secretary ) of the university 's board of trustee . the letter say that dr . budiman have be unhonorably discharge because of not follow the critique ethics adopt by the university . he be also accuse of circulate issue discredit the university 's board of trustee and rector . what dr . budiman actually do be only publicly express critical opinion againt the board 's controversial decision on the appoinment of the new rector , dr . john ihalauw . previously , dr . budiman receive two letter of reprimand from the board , but no specific " misconduct " be mention in both letter . two additional note must be mention . first , over the year the board have be under constant pressure from the majority of the faculty member , student , and administrative staff of the university to revoke the appointment of the new rector , which be consider illegitimate . the same academic community have express public support for dr . budiman 's initiative to file a lawsuit againt the board . secondly , all of this be take place as an increasingly sweep clamp - down of intellectual activism have be heighten in the past two week , presumably in preparation for the upcome apec summit in jakarta this november . there be a possibility that this dismissal be also intend at punish dr . budiman and close his opportunity to continue express his criticism to the indonesian authority . in a separate case , dr . george junus aditjondro , another uksw 's lecturer and a close friend of dr . budiman , be still under police 's interrogation for insult the state authority while speak in a seminar in another campus . this arbitrary measure againt dr . budiman have demonstrate how such an academic institution as uksw have violate the principle of freedom of speech and have threaten the democratic atmosphere within the academic community . hbe dismissal will be detrimental not only to the world-wide know reputation of uksw as one of more commit university , but also to the dynamic of indonesium intelectual and academic life as well . as member of academic community and individual who be concern with the maintenance of freedom of speech , we should express our concern to this arbitrary action . please send letter , fax , or make a call to the board of trustess of uksw for : - express concern at the unhonorable discharge of dr . arief budiman - ask the board to reconsider the decision and to give dr . arif budiman an opportunity to defend himself in front of the university 's senate and academic community in general . mail address : prof . dr . ir . haryono semangun ketua umum dewan pengurus yayasan perguruan tinggus kristen satya wacana ( board of trustee satya wacana christian university ) jl . diponegoro 52-60 salatiga 50711 indonesia phone : ( 62 ) ( 298 ) - , 81362 , 81363 , 81364 fax : ( 62 ) ( 298 ) 81420 telex : 22364 ukswsa ia for more information , e-mail : amrih widodo at awidodo @ facstaff . uwisc . edu herus akhmadus at jpnn @ clark . net
