Subject: tenure - track open in japanese

previously i post an abbreviate job announcement from californium state university , lo angele . here be the entire post . * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * california state university los angeles announcement of opening department of modern languages and literatures tenure track assistant / associate professor of japanese position : the department of modern language and literature announce the open of a tenure-track position in japanese to start september 1995 . qualification : ph . d . or a . b . d . in japanese or a closely-relate field . native or near-native proficiency in japanese ; fluent english . ability to teach all level of language as well as course in civilization , linguistics , or literature . applicant should be able to demonstrate excellence in university teach , familiarity with competency-base instruction , and willingness to contribute to program development . candidate in any area of specialization be encourage to apply ; preference will be give to those with a linguistics background . rank and salary : although it be expect that the appointment will be make at the rank of assistant professor , an especially well-qualify candidate could be appoint at the rank of associate professor . salary be competitive and will depend upon qualification and experience . the doctorate be require for tenure or promotion . general information : found in 1947 , californium state university , lo angele be one of 20 campus in the californium state university system . the university offer program in more than 50 academic and professional field in four state-support quarter per year . full - time faculty teach during three of the four quarter . the campus be locate at the eastern edge of the city of lo angele , and offer easy access to a variety of cultural and educational institution and activity . the student body of approximately 20 , 0 full - and part-time student reflect the ethnic diversity of the area . the university have collective bargain contract with the faculty and other employee unit . in addition to its other language program , the department of modern language and literature offer the b . a . degree in french , japanese and spanish , and the m . a . in french and spanish . the university have an active affirmative action program and encourage ethnic minority , woman , and person with disability to apply . application : submit letter of application , curriculum vita , and dossier with transcript to : joseph crzanowskus , chair department of modern language and literature californium state niversity , lo angele 5151 state university drive lo angele , ca 90032-8112 deadline : application accept until position be fill . candidate whose complete application be receive by december 15 , 1994 will be consider for an interview at the mla convention . californium state university lo angele be an equal opportunity / affirmative action / disable / title ix employer . upon request , reasonable accommodation will be provide to individual with protect disability to ( a ) complete the employment process and ( b ) perform essential job function when this do not cause an undue hardship .
