Subject: workbook

in ' 95 i ' m teach a unit call descripptive linguistic : morphology and syntax . it one of those 2nd / 3rd yr level unit that cover classic a structuralist technique for analyse and describe language , introduce student to some of the theoretical and conceptual problem that arise in language description , and expose student to some of the main type of morphological and syntactic phenomenon in language of the world . it thus mainly descriptive , but with a secondary typological bend , and i ' m sure in this respect it be similar to linguistic unit on offer at many university . as a text i ' m use ( bit of ) the new crowley , lynch , siegel , piau book ' design of language ' which be be publish by longman in jan ' 95 . as support material for this unit , i ' m put together a collection of language datum problem as a workbook . in the past i ' ve either concoct my own , or plunder the usual source ( langacker , stockwell , demer & farmer , etc etc ) but i ' m a bite tire of these and i ' m on the lookout for fresh material . many of you who have be involve in both teach and language description have probably , like me , develop language datum problem for use in assignment and tutorial , etc . 20 so i ' m write to seek contribution from anyone who 'd like to pool such datum . i ' ll happily accept problem in phonology , but i ' m particularly interest in morphology , morphosyntax and syntax . i 'd like the workbook to have an australian / asian / pacific regional bias , but not so strong as to stifle typological diversity , so i ' ll welcome useful material from any language anywhere . contributor will be acknowledge in the text ( as in sample below ) and will receive a free electronic copy of the complete workbook . i 'd like any contribution before mid - jan , and the complete workbook will be post to you at the end of feb . my immediate intention be to create a student resource manuscript for ' 95 , but if subsequent publication seem desirable , i ' ll recontact contributor to seek their permission . if you be interest , here 's a list of topic as a prompt , and a few guideline . 20 / 80 grammatical category , noun class / gender , tam distinction , polarity , transitivity , causative , voice , pre - / suf - / in - / simul - / supra-fix , replacive / zero / subtractive morph , compound , redup , morphotactic , inflection / derivation , condition allomorphy , abstractness in morphophonemic , clitic , case distinction , concord , word order , adposition , verb serialisation , co-ordination , subordination , complement , relativisation , problem that highlight the adequacy / inadequacy of insertion / movement rule , etc etc 80 provide the language name , and a short language description ( as in sample below ) . 80 datum emaile to nreid @ metz . une . udu . au as an attach document , key in time 12 and iparoman 12 font , will simplify my job , but good datum scrawl in blood on paperbark will do if it 's legible . 80 if you use an establish orthography instead of ipa , provide a key to the orthography ( as in sample below ) . sample format ( a dangerous exercise within eudora - please allow for its limitation ) problem 1 ngin ' giwumirrus [ contribute by : nichola reid ] description : 20 ngin ' giwumirrus be speak by about 20 people in the daly river region 300 km southwest of darwin in the northern territory of australium . it be a non - pamanyungan language with an elaborate noun class system and complex polysynthetic verbal morphology . 20 question : 20 the ngin ' giwumirrus datum below illustrate the morphological mark of membership in two noun class . describe the semantics of these two noun class , and their morphology , note any allomorphy that you find . can you argue convincingly for an ' underlie form ' for either class marker . [ useful info : ngin ' giwumirrus have a four vowel inventory ; / i / high front , / e / low front . / a / low back , / u / high back . orthographic ' ty , ' 's y ' and ' ny ' represent palatal stop , fricative , and nasal respectively , / rr / and / r / represent a trill and continuant ] . 20 1 daba arm 16 damadus chest 2 adany shark 17 depus head 3 afitus insect 18 deme hand 4 eferrus bluetongue 19 dapurr bum 5 detyirrus navel 20 afu 20 whip snake 6 engete kingfisher 21 afunyus mosquito 7 detyerrus ear 22 defirr foot 8 awiny bream 23 dagarrus leg 9 afilpurr carpet snake 24 epelen rifle fish 10 denintyus knee 25 desyus nose 11 dederrus back 26 aminyirr peewee 12 awuntyerr finch 27 amu fly 13 emengginy goanna 28 datyamu cheek 14 datum shoulder 29 detyeny tongue 15 akaka nightjar owl 30 elele curlew end sample format many thanks nick reid note , direct address : nreid @ metz . une . edu . au
