Subject: the challenge

from the desk of robert g . allen dear nlpeople first let me ask you this question . do you want to build an extra stream of income ? if you say , " yes ! " then let me show you how you can begin live your dream this year instead of wait until it 's too late . if you be not interest in this , please forgive the intrusion and delete this letter , and i will not contact you again . as it say on the letterhead , my name be robert allen . i ' m well know for my book , nothe down and creat wealth ( which be # 1 new york time best seller ) and my recent audio program , road to wealth and multiple stream of income . accord to independent research , these book and program have create hundred of millionaire . my third book be call " the challenge . " it 's a true story of how i select a woman from an unemployment line and teach her my success secret . ninety day later , she have earn $ 5 , 0 and in a year , have earn $ 100 , 0 . i ' m now work on my next challenge . i call it the multiple stream of income challenge . here 's the challenge . as a test , i be select a small group of people and teach them a brand new way of earn extra stream of income . i want you to work with me on this next challenge . if you join with me , you will be work with me and my team of highly successful people . our financial success be tie directly to you . if you be successful , then we be successful . it 's that simple . i do n't want to take up your time if you ' re not really look for a way to add an extra stream of income . therefore , i ' ve record a message on a 24 hour voice mail number that give the basic information . here 's the number . 801-235 - 384 if you have access to a fax machine then also call our fax on demand at 415-995 - 2365 . this will give you a complete overview of our company . check out our web site at www . usana . com call this hotline number , retrieve this fax , and check out this web site today ! you will be glad you do . to have someone contact you with information on join , please send a request to plumb111 @ aristotle . net and someone will respond as soon as possible . if you wish to be contact by phone , please include you phone number and area code . massive success bob allen
