Subject: new service for linguist subscribers

dear subscribers : the linguist list has just instituted a new service , which we ' re calling " the notice board . " the notice board can be found at : http : / / linguistlist . org / ~ notice / it is intended to help linguists make professional contacts and find practical information - - the kind of information that facilitates our professional activities but is not directly related to linguistic research . for example , you might post a notice on the notice board if : - you ' re spending your sabbatical in another city and want to find a house to rent - you need crash space or a roommate for a linguistics conference . - you want information about living conditions in a region where you ' ll be doing fieldwork . this is the kind of information-gathering that used to be one of the great advantages of email distribution lists . and , having benefited from it ourselves in the past , we have often regretted that the size of linguist 's subscriber list ( now over 9000 ) makes it impossible to post such inquiries in linguist issues . we hope that this " linguist notice board " on the world wide web will partly take the place of such postings . we will , of course , continue to post queries having to do with linguistic research and announcements of general interest ( jobs , fellowships , conferences , etc . ) on linguist . so you should continue to send these to the list . the notice board is designed for more personal requests and announcements ( but not " lonely linguist seeks attractive , adventurous informant . . . " the notice board won't be quite that personal . . . . ) please let us know if you have suggestions for its improvement . helen , anthony , daniel linguist moderators reminders : 1 ) linguist dissertation abstracts are now searchable . if you have n't yet entered your dissetation abstract , please do so at : http : / / linguistlist . org / dissop . html ( if you do n't have web access , send us an email message and we will be happy to enter your information for you . ) 2 ) linguist is in the process of creating a searchable directory of linguists . if you have n't done so , please enter informaion about yourself at : http : / / linguistlist . org / persop . html thanks !
