Subject: summer school in behavioral and cognitive neurosciences

the groningen graduate school for behavioral and cognitive neurosciences ( bcn ) announces its second summer school in behavioral and cognitive neurosciences 30 june - 11 july 1997 groningen , the netherlands scope brain , behavior and cognition traditionally are studied by various disciplines , ranging from linguistics and experimental psychology through behavioral biology , biophysics and biochemistry to the preclinical and clinical neurosciences . within the groningen graduate school for behavioral and cognitive neurosciences ( bcn ) , established in 1991 at the university of groningen , researchers join efforts to study these different areas of brain research . the summer school brings together international expertise in this multidisciplinary field , with a focus on the interaction between the disciplines . program the summer school program consists of 12 master classes and 4 general lectures . they are taught each morning ( advanced classes ) and each afternoon ( introductory classes ) in four parallel sessions , and provide an excellent opportunity for in-depth discussions . the general lectures will be held in the afternoon , after the afternoon sessions . week 1 ( 30 june - 4 july ) parallel morning sessions ( advanced courses ) : - neural networks as models for neuronal phenomena invited speakers : j . p . draye , mons , belgium w . gerstner , university of lausanne , switserland d . bullock , boston university , usa p . g . morasso , university of genova - neurobiology of cns damage invited speakers : a . arutjunyan , lab . perinatal biochemistry , st . petersburg , russia r . i . hogenesch , norway e . a . j . joosten , departent of neurology , university hospital utrecht , the netherlands m . de ryck , janssen research foundation , beerse , begium r . a . i . de vos , laboratorium pathologie oost - nederland , enschede , the netherlands - topics in constraint - based natural language processing invited speakers : suresh manandhar , department of computer science , university of york , united kingdom from the university of tuebingen , germany : dale gerdemann , thilo goetz , gerald penn , detmar meurers , guido minnen and shuly wintner parallel afternoon sessions ( introductory courses ) : - clinical neuropsychology invited speakers : e . de haan , utrecht , the netherlands p . w . halligan , oxford , united kingdom p . de kort , tilburg , the netherlands d . t . stuss , ontario , canada - color vision invited speakers : k . arikawa , cuy , yokohama , japan t . w . cronin , umbc , baltimore , usa m . kamermans , uva , amsterdam , the netherlands d . g . stavenga , rug , groningen , the netherlands j . walraven , tno , soesterberg , the netherlands c . m . m . de weert , nici , nijmegen , the netherlands - foundations of cognitive science invited speakers : b . von eckardt , university of nebraska , usa m . r . ter hark , groningen , the netherlands e . i . stiekema , groningen , the netherlands - multidisciplinary microdialysis invited speakers : dr . a . m . j . young , dr . m . h . joseph , institute of psychiatry , london , uk dr . t . obrenovitch , insititute of neurology , london , uk week 2 ( 7 - 11 july ) morning session ( advanced course ) : - methodology for neuroimaging invited speakers : c . aine , los alamos , usa h . duifhuis , department of biohysics , groningen , the netherlands n . leenders , paul scherrer institut , villigen , switzerland parallel afternoon sessions ( introductory courses ) : - basics to developmental neurology invited speakers : j . - r . cazalets , cnrs , laboratoire de neurobiologie et mouvement , marseille , france m . van gelder - hasker , department of obstetry , hospital of the free university amsterdam , the netherlands e . a . j . joosten , department of neurology , utrecht university , the netherlands r . w . oppenheim , the bowman gray school of medicine , wake forest university , winston - salem , usa h . b . m . uylings , netherlands institute for brain research , amsterdam , the netherlands l . de vries , department of paediatrics , utrecht university hosital , the netherlands - developmental dyslexia in multidisciplinary perspective invited speakers : h . lyytinen , niilo maki institute , department of psychology , university of jyvaskyla , finland r . nicolson , department of psychology , university of sheffield , united kingdom f . j . koopmans - van beinum , institute for phonetic sciences , university of amsterdam , the netherlands - flexible syntax invited speaker : ad neeleman , department of linguistics , university of utrecht , the netherlands special hands-on course , each day both in the morning and afternoon : - cognitive modeling with act - r invited speakers : john r . anderson , department of psychology , carnegie mellon university , usa christian lebiere , department of psychology , carnegie mellon university , usa fees * graduate and undergraduate students dfl 200 , - * bcn staff and postdocs dfl 300 , - * non - bcn staff and postdocs dfl 400 , - * industrial participants dfl 1 . 000 , - registration * as soon as possible . ask for the program booklet with regsitration form or use the electronic registration form at our web - site inquiries further information regarding the summer school or bcn can be obtained by contacting : bcn office nijenborgh 4 9747 ag groningen the netherlands tel : + 31-50 - 363 . 47 . 34 fax : + 31-50 - 363 . 47 . 40 e-mail : bureau @ bcn . rug . nl see for more details our web - site : http : / / www . bcn . rug . nl / bcn / events / index . html
