Subject: 1998 aaal graduate student travel grant

1998 aaal graduate student travel grant purpose : to help support travel ( and some expenses ) of a graduate student member of aaal to the 1998 annual meeting . eligibility : applicants must be current members of aaal ( at time of application ) who are in a university master 's or ph . d . program in applied linguistics or related field . amount : one award of $ 500 . 00 ( us ) will be made for the 1998 conference . selection criteria : ( a ) present scholarship and future promise ( b ) demonstrated need ( c ) involvement in applied linguistics and commitment to the field application procedure : 1 . send four copies of a letter of introduction in which you state : ( a ) institution and program of study ( b ) current contributions to the field of applied linguistics ( c ) career plans after completion of degree program ( d ) current financial situation , including your university 's contribution to conference travel ( e ) how conference attendance will benefit you and others ( f ) a biographical statement of no longer than 50 words , suitable for publication ( g ) contact information ( address , telephone , fax , and e-mail ) * 2 . send a sealed letter of recommendation from a professor in your graduate program who is familiar with your work . the letter should state your professor 's estimation of : ( a ) your academic work and promise in the field of applied linguistics ( b ) personal attributes relevant to a career in applied linguistics ( c ) your level of need for financial assistance as provided for by this grant . * * each of the categories listed must be addressed since evaluation is keyed to individual categories ( not including 1 ( a ) , ( f ) , ( g ) ) . deadline for receipt of application : december 1 , 1997 send all materials to : 1998 aaal graduate student travel grant aaal business office 7630 west 145th st , suite 202 apple valley , mn 55124 any questions about this grant may be addressed to the co - chair of the awards committee : helena halmari , dept . of english , sam houston state university huntsville , texas 77341 e-mail : eng _ shh @ shsu . edu tel : 409-294 - 1990
