Subject: multilingual text - to - speech synthesis

multilingual text-to - speech synthesis the bell labs approach edited by richard sproat bell labs , lucent technologies foreword by louis pols , university of amsterdam multilingual text-to - speech synthesis : the bell labs approach is the first monograph-length description of the bell labs work on multilingual text-to - speech synthesis . every important aspect of the system is described , including text analysis , segmental timing , intonation and synthesis . there is also a discussion of evaluation methodologies , as well as a chapter outlining some future areas of research . while the book focuses on the bell labs approach to the various problems of converting from text into speech , other approaches are discussed and compared . this book serves both the function of providing a single reference to an important strand of research in multilingual synthesis , while at the same time providing a source of information on current trends in the field . contents and contributors : foreword , louis pols . 1 . introduction , jan van santen , richard sproat ; 2 . methods and tools , jan van santen , richard sproat ; 3 . multilingual text analysis , richard sproat , bernd m \ 246bius , kazuaki maeda , evelyne tzoukermann ; 4 . further issues in text analysis , richard sproat ; 5 . timing , jan van santen ; 6 . intonation , jan van santen , chilin shih , bernd m \ 246bius ; 7 . synthesis , joseph olive , jan van santen , bernd m \ 246bius , chilin shih ; 8 . evaluation , jan van santen ; 9 . further issues , richard sproat , jan van santen , joseph olive ; a . character set encodings . b . glossary of grammatical labels , references , name index , subject index . 1998 336 pp . isbn 0-7923 - 8027 - 4 price : $ 110 . 00 order your copy today ! phone customer service at ( 781 ) 871-6600 . orders by fax to ( 781 ) 871-6528 for information about all our publications , please visit our on-line catalogue at : http : / / www . wkap . nl
