Subject: linguistics association of great britain

linguistics association of great britain spring meeting 1998 : lancaster university the 1998 spring meeting will be held from tuesday 14 to thursday 16 april at lancaster university . the local organisers are melanie sharratt and julia glass ( m . sharratt @ lancaster . ac . uk and j . a . glass @ lancaster . ac . uk ) . enquiries about the meeting should be addressed to : melanie sharratt , lagb 1998 , linguistics department , lancaster university , lancaster la1 4yt . accommodation : en suite and standard rooms available . standard rooms have wash basins . rooms are in john creed - cartmel and lonsdale buildings , a short walk from the george fox building where the talks will be given . rooms will be allocated strictly on a " first-come first-served " basis . registration : begins at 12 noon on tues . 14th april at lonsdale porters lodge . bar : will be open at lunchtimes and evenings ( until 23 . 00 ) every day . food : please indicate vegetarian / other dietary requirements on booking form . childcare : if you require childcare , please contact the local organiser for further details . travel : lancaster is easily accessible by train ( trains from london can be caught at euston station ) . by car , the university is easily accessible from junction 33 of the m6 when travelling from the north or the south . car parking vouchers will be available free of charge on request . further travel details will be sent out with booking receipts events : the linguistics association 1998 lecture on tuesday afternoon will be delivered by professor frederick newmeyer of the university of washington , and is entitled ' formal linguistics and functional explanation : bridging the gap ' . professor newmeyer will also be participating in a workshop entitled ' formalism , functionalism and typology ' on tuesday afternoon and evening . the workshop is organised by bill croft ( university of manchester ) ; other contributors are anna siewierska ( university of lancaster ) and simon kirby ( university of edinburgh ) . there will be a language tutorial on quechua , given by pieter muysken ( university of amsterdam ) . there will be a wine party on tuesday evening , sponsored by the dept of linguistics . bookings : should be sent to the local organisers , address above , to arrive by friday 27 march . cheques should be made payable to " lancaster university " . guests : members may invite any number of guests to meetings of the association , upon payment of a \ 1635 guest invitation fee . members wishing to invite guests should photocopy the booking form . abstracts : are available to members who are unable to attend the meeting . please order using the booking form below . annual general meeting : this is to be held on the afternoon of wednesday 15 april . items for the agenda should be sent to the honorary secretary . nominations for speakers : nominations are requested for future guest speakers ; all suggestions should be sent to the honorary secretary . changes of address : members are reminded to notify the membership secretary ( address below ) of changes of address . committee members : president : prof . richard hudson , university college london ( dick @ ling . ucl . ac . uk ) honorary secretary : dr . david adger , university of york ( da4 @ tower . york . ac . uk ) membership secretary : dr . kersti borjars , university of manchester ( k . e . borjars @ manchester . ac . uk ) meetings secretary : dr . marjolein groefsema , university of hertfordshire ( m . groefsema @ herts . ac . uk ) treasurer : dr . paul rowlett , university of salford ( p . a . rowlett @ mod-lang . salford . ac . uk ) assistant secretary : dr . april mcmahon , university of cambridge ( amm11 @ hermes . cam . ac . uk ) internet home page : http : / / clwww . essex . ac . uk / lagb . electronic network : the lagb electronic network is used for disseminating lagb information and for consulting members quickly . to subscribe send the message " add lagb " to : listserv @ postman . essex . ac . uk . future meetings : 10-12 september 1998 university of luton . 8-10 april 1999 university of manchester . autumn 1999 ( provisional ) university of york . spring 2000 ( provisional ) university college london . autumn 2000 ( provisional ) university of wales bangor . other dates : genes , languages and peoples . 1 - day workshop on the interfaces between genetics , linguistics and archaeology , to be held at selwyn college , cambridge , saturday 5 september 1998 . sponsored by the lagb and the genetical society . speakers include don ringe , roger lass , merritt ruhlen , svante paabo , antonio torroni , rob foley . contact april mcmahon at selwyn college , cambridge , cb3 9dq ; phone 01223 335830 ; e-mail amm11 @ hermes . cam . ac . uk . international conference : negation : syntax , semantics and pragmatics friday 30 october - sunday 1 november 1998 , university of salford . invited speakers : liliane haegeman , william ladusaw , jean - yves pollock conference organiser : paul rowlett abstract submission : max . 300 words by 30 april 1998 to wendy pickles , negation conference administrator , european studies research institute , university of salford , salford m5 4wt . e - mail : w . pickles @ esri . salford . ac . uk 5th conference on diachronic generative syntax , may 30 - june 1 1998 . contacts : susan pintzuk , george tsoulas , anthony warner , the organising committee , digs 5 , department of language and linguistic science , university of york , york yo1 5dd . uk . tel : + 44 1904 432661 / 432664 / 432667 . fax : + 44 1904 432673 . email : digs @ york . ac . uk . www : http : / / www . york . ac . uk / ~ lang13 the meetings secretary would very much like to receive offers of future venues , particularly from institutions which the lagb has not previously visited or from places with newly established linguistics programmes .
