Subject: genre in digital documents , hicss 32

note : the deadline for submission of abstracts has been extended to april 15 , 1998 call for papers for the minitrack " genre in digital documents " part of the digital documents track of the thirty - second annual hawai ' i international conference on systems sciences ( hicss ) maui , hi - january 5 - 8 , 1999 we invite papers for a minitrack on " genre in digital documents " as part of the digital documents track at the hawaii international conference on system sciences ( hicss ) . it is becoming increasingly clear that the successful use of digital media requires the emergence of new or transformed genres of digital communication . by genres we mean not just particular technologies or modes of communication or presentation ( e . g . , hypertext , email , the web , and so on ) , but complex communicative forms anchored in specific institutions and practices - - the digital analogues , that is , of print forms like the newspaper , the annual report , the how-to manual , the scholarly journal . this includes not just genres replicated from print form , but new and emergent genres that may not have existed in print form . topics the minitrack will address include , but are not restricted to , * issues in the transformation of print genres to digital form * genres in digital search and classification * genre theory and its application to digital documents * investigations of genre in use * analyses of particular document genres * designing in support of genre * evolution of genres of digital documents we invite two kinds of submissions : " position papers " that take on the broad questions of the role of genre in our understanding of digital documents , and case studies , designs , or reports that shed light on particular aspects of digital genres . please submit your paper to : michael shepherd geoffrey nunberg faculty of computer science xerox palo alto research center dalhousie university 3333 coyote hill road p . o . box 1000 palo alto , ca 94304 halifax , nova scotia nunberg @ parc . xerox . com canada b3j 2x4 fax : 415-812 - 4777 shepherd @ cs . dal . ca fax : 902-492 - 1517 deadlines : april 15 , 1998 : 300 - word abstract submitted to track chairs or minitrack chairs for guidance and indication of appropriate content . june 15 , 1998 : full papers submitted to the appropriate minitrack chair aug . 31 , 1998 : notification of accepted papers mailed to authors . oct . 1 , 1998 : accepted manuscripts , camera-ready , sent to minitrack chair ; author ( s ) must register by this time . nov . 15 , 1998 : all other registrations must be received . registrations received after this deadline may not be accepted due to space limitations . hicss-32 consists of eight tracks : collaboration systems and technology track digital documents track emerging technologies track health care track internet and the digital economy modeling technologies and intelligent systems organizational systems and technology track software technology track for more information about these tracks and a list of minitracks each consist of , please check the hicss web page for full listing of the minitracks : http : / / www . cba . hawaii . edu / hicss or contact the track administrator , eileen dennis , at edennis @ uga . edu
