Subject: frontiers of combining systems

preliminary call for papers second international workshop frocos ' 98 frontiers of combining systems october 2 - 4 , 1998 , amsterdam in various areas of logic , computation , language processing , and artificial intelligence there is an obvious need for using specialized formalisms and inference mechanisms for special tasks . in order to be usable in practice , these specialized systems must be combined with each other , and they must be integrated into general purpose systems . recently , the development of general techniques for the combination and integration of special systems has been initiated in many areas . after frocos ' 96 , ` frontiers of combining systems ' 98 ' ( frocos ' 98 ) is the second workshop intended to offer a common forum for these research activities . it also aims to offer the possibbility of presenting results on particular instances of combination and integration , and on their practical use . topics - - - - - suggested , but not exclusive topics of interest for the workshop are : * combination of constraint solving techniques and combination of decision procedures * integration of equational and other theories into deductive systems * integration of data structures into clp formalisms and deduction processes * combinations of logics and of term rewriting systems * hybrid systems in computational linguistics , knowledge representation , natural language processing , and human computer interaction * logical modeling of multi-agent systems . programme commitee - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - franz baader , david basin , jacques calmet , dov gabbay ( co-chair ) , natasha kurtonina , aart middeldorp , istvan nemeti , maarten de rijke ( co-chair ) , christophe ringeissen , klaus schulz , amilcar sernadas , michael wooldridge invited speakers - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - names of invited speakers will be released shortly . paper submissions - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - authors are invited to submit a detailed abstract of a full paper of at most 10 pages to the second programme co-chair , either by e-mail ( preferred ) or regular mail . results must be unpublished , and not submitted for publication elsewhere . the cover page should include title , authors , and the coordinates of the corresponding author . following this it should be indicated which of the thematic areas best describes the content of the paper . to be considered , submissions must be received no later than may 15 , 1998 . all submissions will be thoroughly evaluated . on the basis of the referee reports , papers will be selected for presentation at the workshop and for the proceedings . authors will be notified by july 15 , 1998 . we intend to publish the proceedings as a volume of the kluwer series on ` ` applied logic ' ' . addresses for submissions - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - electronic submissions should be sent to frocos98 @ wins . uva . nl , using ` submission ' as the subject line . paper submissions should be sent to maarten de rijke attn : frocos ' 98 illc , university of amsterdam plantage muidergracht 24 1018 tv amsterdam the netherlands important dates - - - - - - - - - - - - - - submission deadline : may 15 , 1998 notification : july 15 , 1998 workshop : october 2 - - 4 , 1998 local arrangements - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - carlos areces , christof monz , maarten de rijke , marco de vries further information - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - email inquiries about frocos ' 98 should be directed to frocos98 @ wins . uva . nl . information about frocos ' 98 can be obtained on the world wide web at http : / / www . wins . uva . nl / ~ mdr / frocos98 . sponsors - - - - - - - frocos ' 98 is sponsored by the computational logic project at illc , university of amsterdam .
