Subject: new books in computational linguistics

centering theory in discourse edited by marilyn walker , at and t labs research , aravind k . joshi , university of pennsylvania , and ellen prince , university of pennsylvania this edited collection of previously unpublished papers focuses on centering theory , an account of local discourse structure . developed in the context of computational linguistics and cognitive science , centering theory has attracted the attention of an international interdisciplinary audience . as the authors focus on naturally occurring data , they join the general trend towards empiricism in research on computational models of discourse , providing a significant contribution to a fast-moving field . march 1998 464 pp . 0-19 - 823687 - 5 $ 105 . 00 oxford university press computer-assisted language learning : context and conceptualization michael levy , university of queensland so far , the development of computer - assisted language learning ( call ) has been fragmented . in these pages , michael levy sets call in its proper historical and interdisciplinary contexts , providing a comprehensive overview of the topic . drawing on published work as well as an international survey among call practitioners in eighteen countries , he looks at the relationship between call 's theory and application , its conceptual and practical roles as tutor and tool . levy also discusses call 's implications for computer programming . most books on call focus on specific projects , and do so mainly from a theoretical point of view , but this unique text considers call as a whole , analyzing the utility of the computer in language learning and teaching . a detailed review of the current literature is matched with an in-depth examination of the tutor-tool framework . an ideal introduction to the procedure and performance of call as a multi-faceted reflection of today 's ever-evolving technology , levy 's study will appeal to students , researchers , and teachers of applied linguistics . may 1997 320 pp . ; 17 b / w figures , 17 tables 0-19 - 823631 - x paper $ 26 . 00 0-19 - 823632 - 8 cloth $ 65 . 00 oxford university press for more information about linguistics titles from oxford university press : e-mail : linguistics @ oup-usa . org or visit the oxford university press usa web site : http : / / www . oup-usa . org oxford university press usa
