Subject: final cfp / fsmnlp ' 98 workshop

final call for papers fsmnlp ' 98 international workshop on finite state methods in natural language processing june 29 - july 1 , 1998 bilkent university , ankara , turkey sponsored by eacl - european chapter of the association for computational linguistics , tubitak - turkish scientific and technological research council ( * ) nato science for stability program tu-language project ( * ) to be confirmed scope : original papers in the theory and applications of finite state techniques in all aspects of natural language processing including , but not limited to : speech , phonology , morphology , tagging , parsing , information retrieval , and discourse , are sought . * * papers accepted to the workshop will also be considered for a future special issue of the computational linguistics journal . * * - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - programme and organizing committee * lauri karttunen ( xerox research centre europe , france , co - chair ) * kemal oflazer ( bilkent university , turkey , co - chair ) * kenneth r . beesley ( xerox research centre europe , france ) * eric brill ( johns hopkins university , md , usa ) * eva ejerhed ( umea university , sweden ) * jerry hobbs ( sri international , ca , usa ) * ronald m . kaplan ( xerox palo alto research center , ca , usa ) * martin kay ( xerox palo alto research center , ca , usa ) * george kiraz ( bell laboratories , nj , usa ) * andras kornai ( bbn , ma , usa ) * kimmo koskenniemi ( university of helsinki , finland ) * tomasz kowaltowski ( university of campinas , brazil ) * claudio leonardo lucchesi ( university of campinas , brazil ) * mehryar mohri ( att labs research , nj , usa ) * mark - jan nederhof ( university of groningen , the netherlands ) * richard sproat ( bell laboratories , nj , usa ) * emmanuel roche ( teragram corp . , ma , usa ) * yves schabes ( teragram corp . , ma , usa ) * gertran van noord ( university of groningen , the netherlands ) * atro voutilainen ( university of helsinki , finland ) important dates jan . 16 , 1998 submissions due mar . 16 , 1998 authors notified apr . 17 , 1998 camera ready copies due june 29 - july 1 workshop submissions electronic submissions are encouraged . please limit full paper submissions to 12 , and extended abstracts to 8 , single column , single spaced pages . please submit postscript files by e-mail to fsmnlp98 @ cs . bilkent . edu . tr with the subject line containing the first few words of the paper title . we ask that you send postscript files a few days in advance so that if there are any printing problems , you may have time to submit a hard copy version . if you prefer hard copy submissions , please send 4 copies of your manuscript fsmnlp ' 98 workshop department of computer eng . bilkent university bilkent , ankara , tr-06533 , turkey in either case , please send a separate e-mail message to fsmnlp98 @ cs . bilkent . edu . tr containing the title , abstract , keywords for the paper and the relevant contact information , with a subject line similar to above . other activities the workshop will be held just after the 7th turkish symposium on artificial intelligence that will also be held at bilkent university on june 24-26 1998 . if there is sufficient interest , sightseeing trips to the museum of anatolian civilizations in ankara , to the cappadocia region known worldwide for its lunar landscape , fairy chimneys , underground cities , and mystical valleys will be organized during the weekend between the symposium and the workshop . accommodations bilkent university campus has a 4 * hotel on the premises . in addition , a number of free lodging facilities in the university dormitories will be provided on site for conference participants . numerous hotels in downtown ankara are also available . further information information about the workshop will be available at http : / / www . nlp . cs . bilkent . edu . tr / fsmnlp98 / and will be updated regularly .
