Subject: anthropological linguistics , vol . 39 , no . 4

* * anthropological linguistics , volume 39 , number 4 ( winter 1997 ) * * mary r . haas : a memorial issue contents editor 's introduction , douglas r . parks bibliography of mary r . haas background mary r . haas : a life in linguistics , sally mclendon mary r . haas : teacher , katherine turner the formative influences on mary r . haas 's career , victor golla mary r . haas and the " first yale school of linguistics " , regna darnell differing opportunity in language : a glimpse of relativity , eric p . hamp descriptive studies mary r . haas 's contributions to wakashan linguistics , william h . jacobsen , jr . the contribution of mary r . haas to the study of southeastern languages , pamela munro mary r . haas and southeastern ethnography , raymond d . fogelson mary r . haas and ethnology , william c . sturtevant remembering mary r . haas 's work on thai , james a . matisoff mary r . haas and linguistic anthropology , william bright mary rosamond haas ( 1910-1996 ) , karl van duyn teeter mary haas : a real linguist of the nth degree , r . m . w . dixon teaching mary r . haas and " berkeley linguistics " , murray b . emeneau mary r . haas : lessons in and out of the classroom , sydney m . lamb the teaching of mary r . haas , william shipley mary r . haas as anthropological linguist , allan r . taylor mary r . haas at berkeley in the sixties , mauricio j . mixco recollections of mary r . haas as teacher , supervisor , and inspiration , brent galloway historical comparison mary r . haas and historical linguistics , lyle campbell mary haas , algic , and the scientific consensus , joseph h . greenberg mary r . haas 's legacy for historical linguistics , catherine a . callaghan haas 's hokan : dead end , or gateway to the future ? , mauricio j . mixco epilogue a 1978 interview with mary r . haas , stephen o . murray * * * * * * * annual subscription rates ( for 4 issues ) : $ 30 for u . s . individuals ; $ 38 for non - u . s . individuals ; $ 65 for u . s . institutions ; $ 75 for non - u . s . institutions . payment should be in u . s . funds by check or postal money order made payable to anthropological linguistics . visa and mastercard are also accepted . subscriptions and inquires should be sent to : anthropological linguistics , student building 130 ( c ) , indiana university , bloomington , in 47405 usa ; fax : ( 812 ) 855-7529 ; e-mail : < anthling @ indiana . edu > . for abstracts and more information , visit our website at : http : / / www . indiana . edu / ~ anthling
