Subject: tislr - 6 ( theoretical issues in sign lang . research )

[ for information , please use : info _ tislr @ gallua . gallaudet . edu instead . ] tislr 6 the sixth international conference on theoretical issues in sign language research http : / / www . gallaudet . edu / ~ aslweb / tislr98 / for info by email : info _ tislr @ gallua . gallaudet . edu kellogg conference center gallaudet university washington , dc , usa november 12-15 , 1998 call for papers abstracts are invited for the tislr 98 conference to be held november 12-15 at gallaudet university in washington , d . c . submissions are invited on any aspect of research and theory about sign language including linguistic structure , language acquisition , language contact and bilingualism , variation , discourse analysis , poetics and metaphor , psycholinguistic and neuropsychological processing , language assessment , gesture / sign relations , research methodology ( including transcription and coding systems , and computer-based data management and networking ) , and language attitudes . * presentation modes will be 40 - minute papers , special interest workshops , research symposia , and posters . * research symposia will be 2 hours and will consist of 3 30 - minute papers on a given topic followed by a 30 - minute general discussion involving the audience . organizers of a symposium should submit a 150 - word abstract summarizing the topics and goals of the symposium along with a 250 - word abstract for each research paper . * forty - minute papers will be 30 minutes of presentation and 10 minutes of discussion . poster sessions will be 2 hours long . paper and poster authors should submit a 250 - word abstract . * workshop sessions will be 90 minutes and geared toward a special interest topic . workshop organizers should submit a 250 - word abstract stating the workshop topic , goals , intended audience , and method ( e . g . discussion , hands - on etc . ) . for information on submitting abstracts , see the web site at http : / / www . gallaudet . edu / ~ aslweb / tislr98 / call . html all submissions must be received by friday april 17 , 1998 * to assist the interpreters in preparing for your presentation and thereby ensuring the quality of the presentations , drafts of accepted papers must be submitted by october 1 , 1998 . please feel free to share this message with anyone who may be interested . finally , all of this information will also be on the conference website by the end of march . that address is http : / / www . gallaudet . edu / ~ aslweb / tislr98 information may be requested by email to info _ tislr @ gallua . gallaudet . edu keynote speakers dr . william c . stokoe dr . stokoe earned his doctorate in old and middle english and classical languages from cornell university in new york . he taught at gallaudet university for 29 years , from 1955 to 1984 . he has received honorary degrees from gallaudet university , copenhagen university , and madonna university . dr . stokoe 's research interests are : culture , cognition , and language , and especially how they began . his presentation at the tislr conference will stress the need for looking to the production and reception of language signs when they are visible instead of audible . early research on signed languages had to stress its similarities to spoken languages . now we must study the differences , as having two reference points in understanding language is far superior to having only one . dr . karen emmorey karen emmorey is a specialist in the psychology and neurobiology of language . she received a ph . d . in linguistics in 1987 from the university of california , los angeles , and she is currently a senior staff scientist in the laboratory for cognitive neuroscience at the salk institute for biological studies . dr . emmorey studies signed languages as a window into the nature of human language , into the relation between language and spatial cognition , and into the determinants of brain organization for language . her current research focuses on several questions : what are the ramifications of using space to express linguistic contrasts in referential and spatial domains ? how are sign languages understood in real time ( specifically , what mechanisms are required to interpret co-reference conveyed spatially ? what are the effects of late language acquisition on language processing ? how does experience with a signed language impact non-linguistic visual-spatial cognition ( specifically , face processing , memory , and imagery ) ? what is the nature of working memory for sign language ? what is the neural organization for signed and spoken language ? specifically , what brain areas are involved in the comprehension and production of spatial language ( i . e . , describing space with classifiers or prepositions ) ? dr . emmorey 's keynote address will focus on only a small subset of these questions . she will address the consequences of using signing space to describe physical space for language and cognitive processing . dr . carol padden dr . padden received her bachelor of science degree in linguistics from georgetown university , and her ph . d . , also in linguistics , from the university of california at san diego . her current work is in the area of reading ability in signing deaf children , and areas of interest include : culture and language , representational systems in sign languages ( for example , fingerspelling ) , and reading development in young deaf children . the topic of her keynote presentation will be : reading research with signers : a new research direction . dr . lars wallin dr . wallin is a faculty member at the university of stockholm , in stockholm , sweden , in the department of sign language . he was born deaf and attended a deaf school growing up . he got his phd in sign language , 1994 , at stockholm university , writing his thesis on polysynthetic signs in swedish sign language . his phd was the first phd in sign language in the world ( others took phd in linguistics or other subjects , but not in sign language . ) he was also the first deaf person in sweden to get his phd . his current work is researching and training in sign language linguistics at stockholm university . his current research is on : the use of classifier signs as free forms in noun phrases in narrative discourse in swedish sign language ; the use of handshapes and movements as bound morphemes in signs describing shape and size of the entities in swedish sign language . pre-conference workshop thursday , november 12 , 2 : 00 - 5 : 00 p . m . we are offering a workshop for those who are not familiar with theoretical linguistic issues . we will define phonology , morphology , syntax , language acquisition , and sociolinguistics , and discuss what each discipline is all about . this will give participants an opportunity to catch up with current , hot issues that conference presenters will be discussing . we will also briefly describe the presenters works , views and arguments and compare how each presenter s works are similar or different from others . the workshop will take place before the conference begins . it is designed to help you gain confidence and be able to participate effectively during the conference . please note that if you plan to participate in the pre-conference workshop , you must pre-register for the conference by october 9 . registration deadline : october 9 , 1998 . you must pre-register for this workshop . workshop fee : $ 30 conference registration for information related to registration and accommodations . college for continuing education attn : tislr ' 98 gallaudet university kellogg conference center 800 florida avenue , ne washington , dc 20002-3695 u . s . a . ( 202 ) 651-6060 tty / voice ( 202 ) 651-6074 fax conference @ gallua . gallaudet . edu
