Subject: new review of hypermedia and multimedia ( nmrh )

the new review of hypermedia and multimedia 1998 call for submissions on the themes of ' adaptivity and user modeling in hypertext / hypermedia systems ' , and ' hypermedia for museums and cultural heritage ' . nrhm ( previously hypermedia , one of the original journals on the subject ) is a refereed annual review journal covering research on practical and theoretical developments in hypermedia , interactive multimedia and related technologies . the new editorial team has introduced themed issues , each issue ( normally 10-12 papers ) will review and explore one or two topical themes from a variety of perspectives . the main theme of the 1997 issue was the evaluation of hypermedia and multimedia systems . the themes for the 1998 issue of the new review will be : - hypermedia for museums and cultural heritage theme editors douglas tudhope and daniel cunliffe - adaptivity and user modeling in hypertext / hypermedia systems : guest editors peter brusilovsky and maria milosavljevic ( also see adaptive hypertext and hypermedia home page http : / / www . education . uts . edu . au / projects / ah / index . html ) papers should be submitted to the appropriate theme editors no later than june 1st 1998 . for instructions to authors , see http : / / www . comp . glam . ac . uk / ~ nrhm / or contact the editor . submissions are welcomed on all aspects of the two themes , including but not restricted to : adaptive hypermedia user modeling in adaptive hypermedia adaptive educational hypermedia systems adaptive information systems adaptive museum hypermedia adaptive navigation support natural language techniques for dynamic hypertext generation adaptive www navigation aids adaptive visualization of hypertext structure empirical studies of adaptive hypermedia content adaptation in hypertext and hypermedia personalized information spaces adaptivity and adaptability in a hypermedia context adaptive information retrieval guest editors peter brusilovsky - plb @ cs . cmu . edu school of computer science , carnegie mellon university , pittsburgh , pa 15213 , usa . maria milosavljevic - mariam @ mpce . mq . edu . au mri language technology group , macquarie university , sydney , nsw 2109 , australia . hypermedia for museums and cultural heritage hypermedia link services networked access time-varying interactive presentations image , audio and video databases navigation design intelligent hypermedia and agents web-based museum hypermedia spatial and temporal models evaluation and studies of use metadata and intellectual access thesauri and semantic representations copyright / ipr for digital multimedia standards editor douglas tudhope - dstudhope @ glamorgan . ac . uk department of computer studies university of glamorgan pontypridd , mid - glamorgan cf37 1dl wales , uk fax + 1443-482715 tel + 1443-482271 associate editor ( us ) andrew dillon - adillon @ ucs . indiana . edu associate editor ( uk ) daniel cunliffe - djcunlif @ glamorgan . ac . uk for subscription information , contact taylor graham publishing , 500 chesham house , 150 regent street , london w1r 5fa , uk .
