Subject: wac4

world archaeology congress 4 cape town : 10 - 14 january 1999 theme : global archaeology at the turn of the millennium wac , the world archaeology congress , was inaugurated at its first congress in southampton in 1986 , and last met in new delhi in 1994 . its conferences and inter-congresses have continued to develop the global dimension of archaeology and the social role that archaeologists play as interpreters of the past . we expect more than a thousand delegates in cape town , and we are planning an exciting and stimulating programme that will do justice to the turn of the millennium . it is appropriate that wac4 should be held in south africa . the world archaeology congress was formed in opposition to apartheid , highlighting the relationship between the study of the past and the politics of the present . south africa 's first democratic elections in 1994 ended a long , bitter era and archaeologists here are now free to be part of a world community of scholarship . the academic programme of the congress will be organised around symposia . these will be half-day , full-day or running themes , each organised by a symposium convenor . papers will be available electronically to registered delegates prior to the congress , and full details of the programme will be posted on our website as they become available . the congress will be structured around three broad themes : time ; archaeology in a global context , and the future . this will provide a rich vein of intellectual stimulation , offering a truly global perspective on a discipline that has stimulated and satisfied many for well over a century . if you would like to attend the congress , please visit our website ( url below ) and register electronically , or complete the registration form in the second announcement which will be mailed shortly . should you wish to deliver a paper , organise a symposium or workshop , present a poster or screen a film on an archaeological topic , demonstrate an archaeology-related computer program or multimedia product , or rent exhibition space at the congress , please contact the congress secretariat : contact : carolyn ackermann wac4 congress secretariat address : po box 44503 claremont 7735 south africa telephone : + 27 ( 21 ) 762 8600 fax : + 27 ( 21 ) 762 8606 e-mail : wac4 @ globalconf . co . za website : http : / / www . uct . ac . za / depts / age / wac important dates : 30 april 1998 : closing date for submission of abstracts and symposium convenor 's packages with deposits where appropriate . 31 july 1998 : preliminary programme to be mailed . applicants to be notified of acceptance of abstracts / symposia . 15 november 1998 : papers to be made available on the congress website .
