Subject: language conflict conference

announcing : an interdisciplinary conference " when languages collide : sociocultural and geopolitical implications of language conflict and language coexistence " november 13-15 , 1998 ohio state university columbus , ohio rationale for conference : to discuss issues relating to language or dialect hegemony within societies including , but not limited to , language planning , designation of national or official languages , orthographic reform , dialect and language prestige , language endangerment and death , minority language status , gender or race-based linguistic hegemony , and the spread of english as the international language of science , business , etc . , and the reaction of non - english speaking peoples to this . in other words , we seek a discussion of all areas in which conflict or disputes arise as the result of competition between different languages or between dialects within a single language . moreover , our interest is in the social , political , historical , and linguistic dimensions of these issues , with a broad geographic coverage that is global in scope . conference themes : state - imposed linguistic unity and its implications ; the linguistic legacy of colonialism ; international languages , their positive and negative consequences ; contentious issues regarding national or local languages ; race - , ethnic - , gender - , and class-based dialects under siege by the dominant linguistic paradigm ; diglossia ; orthographies in competition ; conflicting romanizations of languages . featured plenary speakers : joshua fishman , stanford university victor a . friedman , university of chicago featured panelists : s . robert ramsey , university of maryland , college park yona sabar , university of california at los angeles lachman kubchandani , center for communication studies , pune ( india ) other invited speakers may be added in the next few weeks . call for papers : please send five copies of a one-page anonymous abstract ( no more than 500 words ) with a second page allowable for references and data , together with a 3 " x 5 " file card with your name , title of paper , address ( plus summer address , if different ) , phone number , fax , and e-mail address by may 15 , 1998 to : office of international studies for more information , call : attn : language conference 614-292 - 8770 300 oxley hall or write to : 1712 neil avenue wolf . 5 @ osu . edu columbus , ohio 43210-1219 we anticipate publishing selected papers from the conference with a major university press .
