Subject: phonology

new from holland academic graphics : the iambic issue : iambs as a result of constraint interaction by ruben van de vijver abstract : _ the iambic issue _ deals with a specific problem in metrical theory . iambic feet have some properties that set them apart from trochaic feet : in iambic languages , stress on both the first and on the last syllable is avoided ; iambs are not assigned from right to left ; the proto typical iambic foot ( a light syllable followed by a heavy syllable ) does not play a role in prosodic morphology . building on optimality theory , it is argued that iambic feet are the result of constraint interaction rather than being building blocks of metrical theory . in chapter 2 and 3 , the stress patterns of several carib and yupik languages are analyzed in considerable detail and it is shown that the rightheaded feet found on the surface in these languages are the result of the interaction between a constraint which favors leftheaded feet and a constraint which bars both the initial and the final syllable from being stressed . the claim that iambs can only arise at the left edge of the word , and not on the right edge of the word , is substantiated in chapter 4 . in this chapter the stress patterns of several languages , which are claimed to have iambs arising at the right edge of the word , are analyzed . an analysis of these languages in terms of leftheaded feet is feasible as well , and , in many cases , is even preferable . the prosodic morphology of a number of languages is then investigated in chapter 5 . it is concluded that the prototypical iamb is never used as a building block in prosodic morphology . finally , a summary is presented in chapter 6 . addressing issues in metrical phonology , this book is of interest for phonologists as well as researchers interested in prosodic morphology . paperback , xii + 271 pp . ( 16x24cm ) isbn 90-5569 - 040 - 6 [ hil dissertations , 37 ] with summary in dutch . price : nlg 40 ( = approx . $ 20 ) excl . p&p information and orders : < mailto : mail @ hag . nl > or < http : / / www . hag . nl > . - - - - - - - - - - - - - the phonology of campidanian sardinian : a unitary account of a self-organizing structure _ the phonology of campidanian sardinian _ presents a theoretical account of the phonological system of the phonological system of southern sardinian . in addition to a description of the rich variety of phonological facts of the language , a unitary framework is developed which is based on three existing theories : the dependency - based approach to segmental structure , metrical prosody and optimality theory . major revisions and extensions of the three theories are proposed which lead to a unitary account of an entire phonological system , from the segmental level to the level of higher prosodic constituents . the phonological component of the grammar is argued to be subject to two conflicting and complementary requirements : faithfulness to the underlying representation of lexical and phrasal inputs , and wellformedness requirements on the outputs . the former preserves the interpretive task of phonology , while the latter aims at the maximal regularity and predictability of sound patterns . conflict resolutions between faithfulness and wellformedness constraints give rise to a phonological system which allows for both distinctiveness and learnability . as this book provides a description of an entire phonological system , as well as a theoretical account of the mental organization of sound patterns which underlies the observed phenomena , _ the phonology of campidanian sardinian is of interest both for descriptive and theoretical phonologists . paperback , xxii + 516 pp . ( 16x24cm ) isbn 90-5569 - 043 - 0 [ hil dissertations , 38 ] with summary in dutch . holland academic graphics [ scientific [ document ] processing ] po box 53292 2505 ag the hague the netherlands phone : + 31 70 448 0203 fax : + 31 70 448 0177 e-mail : rene @ hagpub . com http : / / www . hag . nl
