Subject: syntax

call for papers second tromsoe syntax workshop ' vo and ov ' may 22-23 , 1998 university of tromsoe invited speakers : michael brody hubert haider roland hinterhoelzl susan pintzuk is the difference between vo languages and ov languages a function of phrase structure , of movement , of directionality of licensing , or of something else ? if movement , is it movement of the verb , of the arguments , of the vp , or some combination of these ? is ov order in a ( n otherwise ) vo language driven by the same factors that lead to the unmarked order in an ov language ? or vice versa ? how do these models account for the change of a language from ov to vo , or vice versa ? these are just some of the questions that might be raised in connection with the theme of this workshop . abstracts ( one page + graphics and examples ) are invited for 45 minute talks . abstracts may be submitted by snailmail or by e-mail . the deadline for receipt of abstracts is april 15 ! hardcopy submissions : a single copy of the abstract , with the author 's name , affiliation , snailmail address , and e-mail address should be sent to : anders holmberg hum fak , linguistics university of tromsoe n-9037 tromsoe norway e - mail submissions : the abstract , with the author 's name , affiliation , and snailmail address , should be sent as an ordinary e-mail document to : peter svenonius : sven @ isl . uit . no e - mail submissions must contain the expression " vo and ov abstract " in the subject line . non - ascii characters should be avoided . ascii characters can be used in idiosyncratic ways if a gloss is provided . e - mail submissions received by the deadline will be acknowledged within a day or so . inquiries may also be addressed to peter svenonius , sven @ isl . uit . no . inquiries should not contain the expression , " vo and ov abstract " in the subject line . we regret that we do not have funds to finance the travel or lodging expenses of speakers . however , crash space can be arranged . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - anders holmberg phone : + 47 77645616 department of linguistics fax : + 47 77645625 university of tromso 9037 tromso norway
