Subject: cross - language informational retrieval

kluwer academic publishers is proud to announce the publication of : cross-language information retrieval edited by gregory grefenstette rank xerox european research centre , france cross - language information retrieval is the first book that addresses the problem of accessing multilingual information through a single-language query . this research problem is receiving growing attention by us and foreign governments . the universal adoption of the internet and the www have created an enormous , multilingual virtual textual database . rather than looking upon foreign language documents as distracting noise , one can consider these documents as untapped sources of information . cross - language information retrieval describes the problem , highlighting the differences between the field and the related areas of machine translation and information retrieval . researchers from europe , japan and america present a wide variety of techniques and experimental results . the life-size experiments are run on modern large-scale retrieval testbeds , running up to hundreds of megabytes of texts . the techniques involve using bilingual dictionaries , machine translation systems , parallel text corpora , comparable but non-parallel text corpora , latent semantic indexing , and weighted boolean interrogation . this volume is suitable as a secondary text for a graduate level course on cross - language information retrieval , and as a reference for researchers and practitioners in industry . contents and contributors preface . 1 . the problem of cross - language information retrieval ; g . grefenstette 2 . on the effective use of large parallel corpora in cross - language text retrieval ; m . w . davis 3 . statistical methods for cross - language information retrieval ; l . ballesteros , w . b . croft 4 . distributed cross - lingual information retrieval ; c . fluhr , et al 5 . automatic cross - language information retrieval using latent semantic indexing ; m . l . littman , et al . 6 . mapping vocabularies using latent semantics ; d . a . evans , et al . 7 . cross - language information retrieval : a system for comparable corpus querying ; e . picchi , c . peters . 8 . a language conversion front - end for cross - language information retrieval ; y . kiyoshi , et al . 9 . the systran nlp browser : an application of machine translation technology in cross - language information retrieval ; d . a . gachot , et al . 10 . a weighted boolean model for cross - language text retrieval ; d . hull . 11 . building a large multilingual test collection from comparable news documents ; p . sheridan , et al . 12 . evaluating cross - language text filtering effectiveness ; d . w . oard , b . j . dorr . references . index . the kluwer international series on information retrieval , volume 2 kluwer academic publishers , boston hardbound , isbn 0-7923 - 8122 - x , march 1998 , 200 pp . , $ 115 . 00 for more information about this publication , please visit our on - line catalogue at : http : / / www . wkap . nl or you may order directly from : kluwer academic publishers 101 philip drive norwell , ma . 02061 phone : 781-871 - 6600 , fax : ( 781 ) 871-6528 , e - mail : kluwer @ wkap . com kluwer academic publishers p . o . box 322 3300 ah dordrecht , the netherlands phone 31 78 639 2392 , fax : 31 78 6546474 , e - mail : services @ wkap . nl
