Subject: twd ' 98 call for papers

thinking with diagrams ' 98 ( twd ' 98 ) * * * call for papers * * * the university of wales aberystwyth , united kingdom august 22-23 , 1998 http : / / www . aber . ac . uk / ~ plo / twd98 / twd98 . htm - 1 may , submission of full papers - 15 july , submission of summary papers - 22-23 august , twd ' 98 diagrams are essential in most fields of human activity . there is substantial interest in diagrams and their use in many academic disciplines for the potential benefits they may confer on a wide range of tasks . are we now in a position to claim that we have a science of diagrams ? that is , a science which takes the nature of diagrams and their use as the central phenomena of interest . a science which is attempting to understand how diagrams differ from other representational systems and trying to develop principles for the design of effective graphical representations . a science which considers how diagrams communicate information and how they are used to solve problems . if we have a science of diagrams it is certainly constituted from multiple disciplines , including : cognitive science , psychology , artificial intelligence , logic , mathematics , and others . if there is a science of diagrams , then like other sciences , there is an applications or " engineering " discipline that exists alongside the science . applications and engineering provide tests of the theories and principles discovered by the science and extend the scope of the phenomena to be studied by generating new uses of diagrams , new media for presenting diagrams , or novel classes of diagram . this applications and engineering side of the science of diagrams also comprises multiple disciplines , including : education , architecture , computer science , mathematics , human - computer interaction , knowledge acquisition , graphic design , engineering , history of science , statistics , medicine , biology , and others . two authoritative figures in the field have agreed to be the workshop 's guest speakers : prof . arthur i miller professor of history and philosophy of science university college london . prof . aaron sloman professor of ai cognitive science university of birmingham . the theme of twd98 will be - is there a science of diagrams ? by providing a forum for the presentation and discussion of quality research on diagrams and diagram use , we not only try to answer this question , but more importantly attempt draw together the many different approaches , theories and results that we have in the many diverse disciplines that are concerned with diagrams . the question provides a vehicle on which to attempt to integrate what is currently a disparate and disordered set of activities into a more rational and coherent programme of research . is there any common core to the activities which provides a basis for the claim that the " thinking with diagrams " community could constitute a science ? for further information : patrick olivier ( plo @ aber . ac . uk ) home page : http : / / www . aber . ac . uk / ~ plo / twd98 / twd98 . htm - patrick olivier department of computer science university of wales , aberystwyth ceredigion , uk sy23 3db tel : + 44 1970 622447 fax : + 44 1970 622455 plo @ aber . ac . uk http : / / www . aber . ac . uk / ~ plo /
