Subject: conference on linguistic theory in eastern european languages

the first conference on linguistic theory in eastern european languages convenes betweeen 19-21 april , 1998 , in szeged , hungary , as organized by the phd program in theoretical linguistics of jozsef attila university . the purpose of the conference is to bring together researchers and students of various east european languages to exchange and discuss ideas relating to theoretical issues , this time mostly in syntax and phonology . we have invited leading experts as keynote speakers , including maria - luisa rivero ( u of ottawa ) , michael brody ( university college london and linguistics institute , budapest ) , marcel den dikken ( u of tilburg ) , and olga miseska tomic ( u of novi sad ) . the sessions of the conference are : verb - movement & clitics clitics&other verb - movement in hungarian movement case & agreement negation & functional categories phonology , and among the speakers are hilda koopman , katalin e . kiss , ljiljana progovac , tobias scheer . the detailed program of the conference is as follows . alexandra cornilescu ( universiry of bucharest ) : case and aspectual structure : investigating romanian nominalizations alexei kochetov ( university of toronto ) : the role of contrast in shaping inventories : palatalized coronals in slavic dalina kallulli ( university of durham , university of vienna ) : on non - active morphology in albanian daniela corina ionescu ( university of bucharest ) : a avea + small clause construction - a case of participle agreement in romanian daniela isac ( university of bucharest ) : on negation in romanian danijela stojanovic ( university of ottawa ) : sentence processing strategies in the adult and child grammar of serbo - croatian david willis ( university of oxford ) : reanalysis in old russian periphrastic verbal constructions e . kiss katalin : the hungarian verbal complex revisited ewa willim ( jagiellonian university , krakow ) : on functional categories - a case study of the det ( erminer ) paradigm in polish , an articeless language galina alexandrova ( university of ottawa ) : control agrees to subordination hilda koopman and anna szabolcsi ( ucla ) : overt syntax and hungarian complex verb formation iliyana krapova ( university of plovdiv ) : subjunctive complements , null subjects and case checking in bulgarian ivanka p . schick ( university of potsdam ) : doubling clitics and information - structure in modern bulgarian jacek witkos : verb movement and clitic auxiliaries in polish revisited joel hoffmann : paratactic movement phenomena ljiljana progovac ( wayne state university ) : eventive " to " and the placement of clitics in serbian marcel den dikken ( tilburg university ) : ( anti - ) agreement in clauses and nominal phrases maria luisa rivero ( university of ottawa ) : stylistic verb movement in balkan and slavic languages michael brody : partial chains and bare checking theory olga tomic ( university of novi sad ) : on cliticshood surenyi balezs and csirmaz aniko ( elte , budapest ) : ott there in hungarian : a case of an expletive ? tania avgustinova and bistra andreeva ( university of saarland ) : intonational properties of bulgarian replicated nominal material ( a study based on map task dialogues ) tobias scheer ( universite de nice ) : vowel - zero alternations in czech prefixes uwe junghanns ( universitaet leipzig ) : syntactic positions and discourse functions of adverbials in russian this information and the abstracts can be found at the http : / / www . arts . u-szeged . hu / dep / genlinguistic / clite / www address , too .
