Subject: language resources and evaluation

provisional programme and call for participation towards a european evaluation infrastructure for nl and speech . a workshop jointly organised by the european network of excellence in language and speech elsnet and the ec language engineering-4 project else to be held on wednesday may 27 , 9 : 00-13 : 00 at the first international conference on language resources and evaluation granada , spain right now , a generic framework for semi-automatic quantitative black-box evaluation of speech and nlp systems does not exist in europe . when confronted to a choice , developers and users prefer to ask the opinion of local experts as any other way of processing is either unrealistic or too costly . the le - 4 project else aims at providing developers with a generic strategy and definition of the primary building blocks needed to implement a semi-automatic quantitative black-box evaluation scheme . prominent speakers from field the have been invited to present papers addressing motivation , advantages , but also problems in connection with the implementation of such an evaluation scheme at an international scale . provisional programme : 09 : 00 opening ( joseph mariani , steven krauwer ) 09 : 05 confirmed presentations : " the darpa experience " ( charles wayne ) " ethology and sociology of evaluation " ( lynette hirschman ) " the aupelf experience " ( joseph mariani ) " experience in grace tagging evaluation " ( patrick paroubek ) " experiences in bilingual text alignment evaluation and word sense disambiguation " ( jean veronis ) " best practice and evaluation " ( ole bernsen / laila dybkjaer ) " confidence measures and evaluation " ( lin chase ) " evaluation within eagles " ( maghi king ) " technology vs user - evaluation " ( marc blasband ) " organising parser evaluation " ( richard sutcliffe ) " evaluation for better products " ( christian dugast ) " resources for evaluation " ( mark liberman ) " the else project " ( patrick paroubek ) 12 : 00 panel and discussion ( rob gaizauskas , moderator ) 13 : 00 closing the selected topics include the multilingual nature of evaluation , lessons from the past ( in europe and the us ) , and the need for language resources . at the workshop the first intermediate results of the else project will be presented and discussed . this call serves to invite interested parties to active participation in the workshop . during the workshop , ample opportunity will be provided for the participants to react to the presentation of the else project , and to the talks by the invited speakers . furthermore participants will be given the opportunity to give brief position statements . the workshop is very timely as it takes place when the ec 's 5th framework programme is taking shape . it is clear that the availability of a european evaluation infrastucture can be an important factor in european r&d activities , and that it can only be successful if it is organized and implemented on a european scale . programme committee the workshop is coorganized by elsnet and else . the programme committee will consist of the participants in the else le - 4 project : niels ole bernsen jean - pierre chanod khalid choukri robert gaizauskas steven krauwer isabelle de lamberterie joseph mariani klaus netter patrick paroubek martin rajman antonio zampolli contact steven krauwer trans 10 , 3512 jk utrecht , the netherlands phone : + 31 30 253 6050 fax : + 31 30 253 6000 email : steven . krauwer @ let . ruu . nl registration information for lrec and pre and post conference workshops conference the registration fees will be 25 . 000 pesetas ( about 150 ecu ) per participant , with reduced fees of 20 . 000 pesetas ( about 120 ecu ) for early registration by march 9 , 1998 , and 12 . 000 pesetas ( about 70 ecu ) for students . the fees cover the following services : a copy of the proceedings , a social dinner , coffee breaks and refreshments . for accompanying persons , the social dinner will be 6 . 000 pesetas ( about 35 ecu ) . pre conference workshops pre conference workshops are 5 , 000 pesetas each for those attending lrec and 10 , 000 pesetas each for those not attending lrec , and include a copy of the proceedings of the workshop and a coffee break . post conference workshop the 2 - day post conference workshop is 10 , 000 pesetas for those attending lrec and 20 , 000 pesetas for those not attending lrec , and includes a copy of the proceedings of the workshop and coffee breaks . registration willbe made only for those persons who have been invited to participate by the organizers . registration can be made on-site and must be paid in cash , using pesetas . for registration forms and more info : http : / / ceres . ugr . es / ~ rubio / elra . html
