Subject: 3rd machine translation conference amta-98

- - - call for submissions - - - association for machine translation in the americas amta-98 conference , langhorne , pa , october 28-31 , 1998 machine translation and the information soup ( mt in a growing field of language technologies ) following successful amta conferences in 1994 and 1996 , the third conference of the association for machine translation in the americas will be held in langhorne , pa , at the sheraton bucks county hotel , on october 28-31 , 1998 . the mt summit last year commemorated the 50th anniversary of machine translation . during that time , mt grew from a tantalizing dream to a respectable and stable scientific-linguistic enterprise , with users , commercial systems , university research , and government participation . but until very recently , mt has been performed in a relatively isolated manner , as a distinct enterprise . this situation is changing rapidly . the explosive growth of the web has brought multilingual text into the reach of nearly everyone with a computer . it is increasingly urgent that the various types of language processing technologies - - information retrieval , automated summarization , multimodal and multilingual display , and machine translation - - be interconnected . once again there will be something for everyone ! retaining the pattern established by its predecessors , amta-98 will offer a blend of invited talks , panel discussions , research papers , system demonstrations and descriptions , tutorials , workshops , book exhibits , and social events . the four days of the conference will also facilitate gatherings of the special interest groups on topics ranging from interlinguas and ontologies , lexicons , standards and data exchange , mt on pcs , and mt evaluation . the overall intent of the conference is to bring together mt developers , researchers , and users , to share the latest information on mt and to forge partnerships for addressing the challenge of language barriers that impede communication on the information highway . participation by members of amta 's sister organizations in europe and asia is strongly encouraged . invited talks and panel discussions will highlight topical and controversial questions , encouraging lively interactions , as they did at past conferences . in the theory sessions , technical papers will address a wide range of topics , while in practical sessions , the problems of developing and bringing mt systems to market or intergrating mt technology into the workplace will be discussed . in addition , booths can be rented to display systems and products . conference organizers general chair : eduard hovy , usc information sciences institute program chairs : david farwell , crl , new mexico state university laurie gerber , systran software , inc . ( san diego ) local arrangements chair : martha palmer , university of pennsylvania amta-98 : paper and system description / demonstration submissions . authors / system developers are invited to submit three kinds of presentations : 1 . theoretical papers : unpublished papers are requested about original work on all aspects of machine translation . however , given the theme of this year 's conference , special consideration will be given to papers which address advances in multilingual language and information technologies which have a potential impact on machine translation . papers should be in english , not longer than 10 pages , with minimum character font size of 11 pt . 2 . system descriptions with optional system demonstrations : approx . 25 minutes will be allocated per system description / demo . submissions should be in english , not longer than 4 pages . if a system demonstration is included , please provide the following information : - hardware platform , - operating system , - name and contact information of system operations specialist . 3 . studies of users experiences with implementing mt or testing its applicability to some task . users and marketing consultants are especially welcome to submit . studies should be in english , not longer than 8 pages , with minimum character font size of 11 pt . first page : all types of submission should include a separate title page with the following information : - paper title , - author ( s ) ' name ( s ) , address ( es ) , telephone and fax numbers , email address ( es ) , - one-paragraph abstract , - for theoretical papers : subject area keyword ( s ) for user studies : the words " user study " for system descriptions / demos : the words " system description / demo " . submissions are due at address below on june 1 , 1998 . authors will be notified of acceptance on july 15 , 1998 . final copies of papers are due on august 31 , 1998 . softcopy submissions ( papers that do not print will be returned to the author ) : email address : david @ crl . nmsu . edu subject line : amta-98 submission paper encoding : - ascii plain text - microsoft word ( rtf format ) - postscript hardcopy submissions ( please send four ( 4 ) copies ) : amta-98 : david farwell computing research laboratory box 30001 / 3crl new mexico state university las cruces , nm 88003 usa amta-98 : tutorial and workshop submissions . proposals for tutorials and workshops are also welcome at this time for topics of direct interest and impact for mt researchers , developers , vendors or users of mt technologies . approx . 3 hours will be allocated per tutorial . approx . 7 hours may be allocated per workshop . please state the topic ( s ) to be addressed , the rationale for addressing it and the structure of the activities . submissions should be in english and not longer than 4 pages . please submit proposals as soon as possible to david farwell at the address above . proposals must be submitted on or before april 3 , 1998 . for general conference information and further details as it becomes available , visit : http : / / www . isi . edu / natural-language / amta98 . html - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - eduard hovy email : hovy @ isi . edu usc information sciences institute tel : 310-822 - 1511 ext 731 4676 admiralty way fax : 310-823 - 6714 marina del rey , ca 90292-6695 project homepage : http : / / www . isi . edu / natural-language / nlp-at - isi . html
