Subject: uil-ots ( utrecht )

second announcement call for papers the utrecht congress on " storage and computation in linguistics " * * * * * utrecht institute of linguistics ots utrecht , the netherlands , october 19th , 20th and 21st , 1998 deadline for submission of abstracts : may 15th , 1998 * * * * * on the occasion of its tenth anniversary , the utrecht institute of linguistics ots is organizing a three-day international congress from october 19th through october 21st 1998 . the theme of this congress is " storage and computation in linguistics " . invited speakers include : steve pinker , evening lecture ; ray jackendoff ( keynote lecture ) / frans zwarts , the architecture of the language faculty ; harald clahsen / steven gillis , language acquisition ; john ohala / geert booij , language change ; sarah thomason / pieter muysken , language variation ; nicholas asher / frans van eemeren , discourse analysis ; ed keenan & ed stabler / jan koster , grammar design . two distinct cognitive resources that people may employ in interpreting and producing linguistic utterances are , on the one hand , memory , and , on the other , computational procedures . an utterance may be assigned a certain structure and interpretation because it is recognized as an instance of a pattern that is stored in memory , or because computational procedures build up a complex representation of that pattern . in linguistics , this contrast is usually identified with the contrast between lexicon and grammar . in the context of this congress , the distinction is broadly conceived as a tool for exploring our understanding of language structure and language use . the relation between storage and computation will be analysed on the basis of a broad range of empirical questions , concerning issues in the representation and acquisition of linguistic knowledge , the foundations of language and information , and the cognitive and computational aspects of language use and processing . implications of the distinction between storage and computation will be discussed for six different domains of linguistic inquiry : - the architecture of the language faculty - language acquisition - language change - language variation - discourse analysis - grammar design the format of the congress is as follows : ( 1 ) a number of well-known linguistic scholars of different persuasions and from different subdisciplines are asked to contribute invited papers relating to the congress theme . there will be two invited speakers for each of the six domains of linguistic inquiry mentioned above . ( 2 ) there will be around twenty slots for presentations of selected papers . each selected paper will be allotted 25 minutes , including discussion . there will only be plenary sessions . abstract submission to submit a paper , participants are requested to send one original and four anonymous copies of a one-page abstract , by regular mail . each abstract should at least contain the following information : names of authors , title of the paper , brief description of the content of the paper , and an indication of how this paper is related to the theme of the congress the abstract should preferably be printed in times new roman on white paper of a4 size , with top and bottom margins of 2 . 54 cm and left and right margins of 3 . 17 cm . the total number of words in the abstract should not exceed 500 . together with the abstract please send a 3 " x 5 " index card with the following information : - title of the paper ; - name ( s ) of author ( s ) ; - mail address of ( first ) author ; - affiliation ; - phone number ; - electronic mail address of ( first ) author . deadline the abstract must have reached us before may 15th 1998 . on the basis of abstracts , selection will take place during the month of june 1998 . notification of acceptance or rejection will be given before july 1st 1998 . practical information organizing institute : utrecht institute of linguistics ots congress committee : sieb nooteboom ( chairman ) , leslie dijkstra ( secretariate ) , jan don , ton naaijkens , henriette de swart , arie verhagen , fred weerman , frank wijnen dates : deadline abstracts : may 15th 1998 notification : before july 1st early registration : before october 1st 1998 congress : october 19th , 20th , and 21st 1998 fees : registration before october 1st 1998 : dfl 100 , - ( dfl . 50 , - for students with proof of studentship ) registration after october 1st 1998 : dfl . 150 , - ( dfl . 75 , - for students with proof of studentship ) registration a registration form is available from our secretariate ( for address see above ) or can be found at our website http : / / www-uilots . let . ruu . nl / uil - ots / conferences / sc _ home . htm * * * * * the utrecht congress on storage and computation in linguistics 1998 utrecht institute of linguistics ots trans 10 3512 jk utrecht the netherlands phone : # 31 30 253 6006 fax : # 31 30 253 6000 e-mail : uil-ots @ let . ruu . nl * * * * *
