Subject: cald workshop on mixed media databases

the deadline for submissions to the cald workshop on mixed media databases is april the 5th . please send submissions to arrive at the address given below by that date . authors will be notified of paper acceptance by april the 15th if an email address is provided with their submission . the call follows . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - you are invited to participate in the center for automated learning and discovery workshop on mixed media databases . this workshop will be held in conjunction with the conference on automated learning and discovery , being held at carnegie mellon university in pittsburgh from june the 11th to the 13th 1998 . this workshop is intended for researchers with an interest in learning from multiple media . the workshop will emphasize both algorithms and applications of learning with mixed media databases . papers that describe algorithms should cover either novel approaches designed to benefit from mixed-media data , or modifications of standard algorithms that utilize multiple media data sources . application papers should clearly demonstrate the benefits of learning from two or more types of media . different media areas to be addressed include : vision : image , video , and vrml speech and audio text , including ocr , closed - captioning , handwriting , and web-documents olfactory perception haptic and touch sensing if you would like to present at this workshop , please submit a paper describing original research work and results . four copies of the paper should be submitted in hardcopy by april the 5th , 1998 . because of the deadline extension , submissions should be sent , in quadruplicate , to : cald workshop on mixed media databases attn : michael witbrock justresearch 4616 henry st , pittsburgh pa 15213 the ideal paper should cover two or more topics listed above and apply some aspect of learning to the multiple media data . the learning may involve , but is not limited to neural networks , as well as statistical and probabilistic models . all statistical , probabilistic , and learning approaches are welcome . papers submitted to this workshop may also be submitted to other conferences or to journals . detailed submission instructions can be found at the following url , but you should remember the altered deadline and submission address given above : http : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / ~ conald / call . shtml selected papers from the workshop will be considered for publication in an upcoming special issue of ieee expert journal . organizers : shumeet baluja ( baluja @ justresearch . com ) christos faloutsos ( christos @ cs . cmu . edu ) alex hauptmann ( alex + @ cs . cmu . edu ) michael witbrock ( witbrock @ justresearch . com ) the conference main site is at http : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / ~ conald / please visit it soon . and please forward this call to any colleagues who may be interested . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - michael witbrock justresearch research scientist 4616 henry st , pittsburgh , pa 15213 phone : + 1 412 683 9486 fax : + 1 412 683 4175 witbrock @ justresearch . com http : / / www . justresearch . com /
