Subject: minimizing the effort for language resource acquisition

call for participation a workshop on minimizing the effort for language resource acquisition granada , spain , 26 may , 1998 in conjunction with the first international conference on language resources and evaluation granada , spain , 28-30 , may 1998 ( see http : / / ceres . ugr . es / ~ rubio / elra . html for details and how to register ) the workshop will be devoted to any technological and administrative facet of economy of acquisition effort . tentative program : ( svetlana sheremetyeva , organizer ) 0 . introduction . s . sheremetyeva full papers : 1 . reusing swedish language processing resources in svensk f . olsson , b . gamback and m . eriksson 2 . a cost - effective approach to multilingual lexicon acquisition e . viegas , s . nirenburg , b . onyshkevych and v . raskin 3 . speeding - up the building of new ontologies using bilingual dictionaries l . griot 4 . matching resource acquisition work to needs of an application s . nirenburg and r . zajac 5 . minimization strategies in neurotran n . koncar , s . pawlowski , d . sipka and v . sipka 6 . refining a bi - lingual mrd using a corpus based tool . j . cowie general discussion . workshop scope and aims - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - an applied nlp system must produce adequate results and must be made deployable within reasonable time . gathering and acquiring language resources to build an application system is very time-consuming , and it is imperative to find ways of speeding up acquisition of high quality , useful static knowledge sources such as a variety of grammars , lexicons , corpora , etc . viability of avoiding massive resource acquisition , if possible , must also be carefully considered . resource acquisition should include methods , based both on sound theoretical principles and practical experience , of deciding , among other things , on the amount of knowledge one * really * needs for a given application . increasing the size of knowledge sources or their number and variety does not necessarily lead to a commensurate improvement of output quality in an application , though a correlation between the two certainly exists , but it definitely needs to much increased costs . no matter how large the acquired resources are and how many of them have been acquired , there will always remain a residue of language processing problems which can be tackled only by foregoing the requirement of full automation and involving expensive semi-automatic or even manual acquisition . it becomes imperative , therefore , to assess when the static knowledge source acquisition is no longer profitable . thus , in a system for interactive authoring and automatic generation of patent claim texts , the lexical knowledge base can be restricted to a lexicon of domain-related verbs marked for subcategorization ( as the nominals are provided interactively by the author ) . the technological issues to be discussed at the conference include , but are not limited to : - minimization of effort in acquiring monolingual and multilingual text corpora ; - minimization of effort in acquiring computational lexicons , including phonological , morphological , syntactic , semantic and other ( including application-specific ) information ; - minimization of effort in acquisition of resources for the support of corpus-based language engineering methods ; - minimization of effort in acquiring grammatical coverage of languages and sublanguages ; - methods of determining levels of reusability of existing language resources ; - balancing the needs of the application and the grain size of language description ; - minimization of effort through balancing automatic and interactive methods of knowledge acquisition ; - evaluation of potential utility of resources to applications ; program committee : svetlana sheremetyeva , nmsu crl , usa ( chair ) eduard hovy , usc isi , usa bernardo magnini , irst , italy sergei nirenburg , nmsu crl , usa victor raskin , purdue university , usa frederique segonde , xerox research centre europe , france leo wanner , university of stuttgart , germany
