Subject: nwav ( e ) 27

initial call for papers nwav ( e ) 27 new ways of analyzing variation ( in english and other languages ) nwav ( e ) 27 will be held oct . 1 - 4 , 1998 , in athens , ga , at the georgia center for continuing education of the university of georgia . plenary speakers will include william labov and salikoko mufwene , and the program will include both workshops and separate papers according to standard practice for the meeting . there will also be a poster session . in the two days preceding nwav ( e ) 27 , september 29 and 30 , there will be a state-of - the-art conference on african american vernacular english , hosted by professor sonja lanehart , called " sociocultural and historical contexts of african american vernacular english " . this meeting will feature invited presentations by 14 leading scholars in the field . abstracts abstracts are invited in all areas of language variation studies , both synchronic and diachronic , for both 20 - minute presentations and for posters . abstracts will be refereed anonymously . the abstract deadline is june 15 , 1998 ; notification is expected by august 1 . international participants who require certification of participation at an earlier date , to apply for travel funding , should contact the organizers as soon as possible . abstracts should be submitted in two parts . the first part should include the full title and the abstract text of no more than 500 words including bibliography ( i . e . to fit on a single page in appropriate format ) . the author 's name ( s ) should not appear in the text of the abstract or title . the second part should give the full title of the submission and the author 's name ( s ) , with address , e-mail , fax , and phone numbers . please indicate whether you wish your abstract to be considered for presentation , for a poster , or for either . abstracts may be submitted by e-mail ( preferred ) as an ascii message containing both parts of the abstract ( no attachments , please ) . alternatively , authors may send a fully formatted hard copy of the abstract ( six copies of the abstract , and one copy of the separate identification page ) , plus a diskette containing the text file , to the organizers via regular mail . send e-mail abstracts to : nwave27 @ linguistics . uga . edu . send regular mail abstracts to : bill kretzschmar , nwav ( e ) 27 , linguistics program , university of georgia , athens , ga 30602-6205 . if your mail service requires a building name or street name , add " park hall , baldwin street " to the address . a web site for nwav ( e ) 27 has been established at http : / / www . linguistics . uga . edu / nwave27 . additional information will posted there as it becomes available .
