Subject: calls : 6th manchester phonology meeting

call for papers the north - west centre for linguistics and the universities of toulouse - le mirail and paris x - nanterre announce the 6th manchester phonology meeting university of manchester ( uk ) thursday 21 may to saturday 23 may 1998 we are pleased to announce our 6th manchester phonology meeting . for the past five years , this meeting has been one of the important venues for phonologists from all corners of the world . in an informal atmosphere , we discuss a wide range of topics , from the phonological description of languages to the acquisition of phonology by children . we , therefore , invite papers from phonologists , phoneticians , psychologists , sociolinguists , computational linguists - in short , anyone interested in exploring current models of phonological theory and the ( cognitive , phonetic , sociological , computational . . . ) implications of such work . talks on a variety of languages are welcome . the conference venue is the hulme hall lecture suite ( close to the university of manchester campus , which is located only a couple of miles south of the city centre ) . we would ask participants to arrange their own accommodation , and details of inexpensive local hotels ( rooms from gbp20 . 00 per night , incl . breakfast ) can be found on the accommodation page ( url : http : / / www . art . man . ac . uk / german / 6mfm / accomm . htm ) of the 6th manchester phonology meeting web site . unfortunately , we are unable to offer crash space . prospective speakers should e-mail a title and a short abstract no later than monday 9 march 1998 to : wiebke . brockhaus @ man . ac . uk abstracts should be no longer than ten lines of text ( 12pt , 2 . 5 cm margins ) . we would prefer abstracts to be included in normal e-mail messages . if that is not possible , please attach your abstract as a word or wordperfect file . each speaker will be allocated a 45 - minute slot - 35 minutes for the presentation and 10 minutes for discussion . if you are unable to submit your abstract by e-mail , please post or fax it to : dr wiebke brockhaus department of german [ not linguistics , please note ! ] university of manchester oxford road manchester m13 9pl uk fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 161 275 3031 all abstracts will be reviewed by members of the organising committee , but we reserve the right to set up a panel for anonymous reviewing , should the number of abstracts received make this necessary . there is much more information about the 6th manchester phonology meeting available on our web pages ( url of the call for papers , which provides links to the other meeting pages and to several others : http : / / www . art . man . ac . uk / german / 6mfm / call . htm ) . if there is anything else you need to know , please contact wiebke brockhaus at the address given above ( tel . + 44 ( 0 ) 161 275 3180 ) or by e-mail . best wishes , the organisers : wiebke brockhaus ( university of manchester ) jacques durand ( universite de toulouse - le mirail ) bernard laks ( universite paris x - nanterre ) nigel vincent ( university of manchester )
