Subject: aiml ' 98 : first call for papers

first call for papers aiml ' 98 advances in modal logic ' 98 october 16-18 , 1998 uppsala university , uppsala , sweden advances in modal logic is an initiative aimed at presenting an up-to - date picture of the state of the art in modal logic and its many applications . the initiative consists of a workshops series together with volumes based on those workshops . advances in modal logic ' 98 is the second workshop organized as part of this initiative . aiml ' 98 will be held from october 16-18 , 1998 in uppsala , sweden . the workshop is intended for users of modal logic in cognition , computing , and language , as well as for logicians working in modal logic . topics . aiml ' 98 will be organized around a number of thematic areas : - modal logics of agency and normative systems - algebraic and model-theoretic aspects of modal logic - modal approaches to grammar and natural language semantics - computational aspects of modal logic - philosophical aspects of modal logic - modal logic and belief revision . papers on related subjects will also be considered . special session . during the workshop there will be a special afternoon session on modal logic and belief revision ; this session will be chaired by sven - ove hansson and sten lindstrom . invited speakers . invited speakers include j . van benthem , k . fine , j . horty , m . kracht , and r . parikh . paper submission . authors are invited to submit a detailed abstract of a full paper of at most 10 pages by e-mail to heinrich wansing ( e-mail address : wansing @ rz . uni-leipzig . de ) , using ` aiml98 submission ' as the subject line . the cover page should include title , authors , and the coordinates of the corresponding author . following this it should be indicated which of the thematic areas best describes the content of the paper ( if none is appropriate , please give a set of keywords that best describe the topic of the paper ) . to be considered , submissions must be received no later than june 1 , 1998 . the preliminary version of the full paper to be included in a planned volume from the workshop should be available at the workshop ; the volume will be submitted to csli publications . authors will be notified of the acceptance of their papers by december 1 , 1998 . sponsors . aiml ' 98 is generously sponsored by neurotec hochtechnologie gmbh , the computational logic group at the university of amsterdam , the compulog net network for computational logic , the swedish royal academy of science , and the university of uppsala . important dates submission deadline : june 1 , 1998 notification : august 1 , 1998 workshop : october 16-18 , 1998 preliminary version for workshop volume due at the workshop notification of acceptance for publication : december 1 , 1998 programme committee maarten de rijke , amsterdam krister segerberg , uppsala heinrich wansing , leipzig michael zakharyaschev , moscow programme chair michael zakharyaschev institute of applied mathematics russian academy of sciences miusskaya square 4 125047 moscow russia ( e-mails : mishaz @ math . fu-berlin . de and mz @ spp . keldysh . ru ) aiml steering committee maarten de rijke , heinrich wansing , michael zakharyaschev aiml advisory board johan van benthem , amsterdam max cresswell , wellington luis farinas del cerro , toulouse larry moss , indiana krister segerberg , uppsala colin stirling , edinburgh further information . email enquiries about aiml ' 98 should be directed to krister . segerberg @ filosofi . uu . se . information about the aiml initiative can be obtained on the world - wide web at http : / / www . wins . uva . nl / ~ mdr / aiml .
