Subject: discourse across languages and cultures

the 24th university of wisconsin-milwaukee linguistics symposium discourse across languages and cultures september 10 - 12 , 1998 our 24th symposium will be what we believe to be one of the first conferences to bring together scholars from fields such as contrastive rhetoric , rhetorical typology , translation studies , and discourse analysis . although these scholars work in related fields , little opportunity has existed for interaction among them . the goal of this symposium is to provide such an opportunity and to facilitate the sharing of knowledge about cross-cultural and cross-linguistic patterns in discourse , whether that discourse be spoken or written . featured speakers include : ruth berman ( tel - aviv university ) wallace chafe ( university of california - santa barbara ) susanna cumming ( university of california - santa barbara ) william eggington ( brigham young university ) robert longacre ( university of texas at arlington ) carol lynn moder ( oklahoma state university ) ronald scollon ( georgetown university ) dan i . slobin ( university of california - berkeley ) sonja tirkonnen - condit ( university of joensuu ) all sessions will be held on our campus in the university of wisconsin - milwaukee student union . the first plenary session is scheduled to begin thursday afternoon . a full program will be provided at a later date . registration : pre - registration fees are $ 20 for students , $ 45 for regular registration . on - site registration fees are $ 25 for students , $ 50 for regular . all pre-registration forms must be accompanied by a check or money order in u . s . dollars and received by august 1 , 1998 . ( we cannot , unfortunately , accept credit cards . ) if you wish to pre-register , please send the following information to the address below . name address affiliation email address cassandra stephens uwm linguistics symposium dept . of english university of wisconsin - milwaukee milwaukee , wi 53201-0413 accommodations : blocks of rooms have been reserved at two hotels near uwm . both have special rates for the symposium , but require mention of the uwm linguistics symposium , and must be secured by credit card , or one-night 's stay in advance . some van service from the hotels will be available . the park east hotel ( $ 63 for single , $ 73 for double , until aug . 18 ) 916 e . state st . milwaukee , wi 53202 phone : 1-800 - 328-7275 the astor hotel ( $ 54 for single , $ 59 for double , until aug . 9 ) 924 e . juneau ave . milwaukee , wi 53202 phone : 1-800 - 558-0200 we may have a limited amount of " crash space " available . if you are interested , please indicate this on your pre-registration letter . we cannot , however , guarantee such space . for additional information , or questions , contact mike darnell at darnell @ csd . uwm . edu
