Subject: sle conference programme

societas linguistica europaea xxxist annual meeting st andrews , 26-30 august 1998 second circular enclosed is the provisional programme of the xxxist annual meeting of the societas linguistica europaea , to be held in st andrews , scotland , on 26-30 august 1998 , under the general theme : langue and parole in synchronic and diachronic perspective . some of the section papers listed are dependent on funding becoming available . if you have submitted an abstract you will also find enclosed a slip giving the decision of the selection committee . the deadline for registration is 30 april 1998 . a registration form was sent out with the first circular . papers will be given in the quadrangle of st salvator 's college , on north street . participants will be accommodated in st salvator 's hall of residence and in new hall . those staying at new hall will have breakfast in new hall but lunch and dinner in st salvator 's hall of residence . there will be a book exhibition . registration will take place in st salvator 's hall of residence from 14 . 00-18 . 00 on wednesday 26 august . members staying at new hall may check in to their accommodation first - between 14 . 00 and 22 . 00 - and then go to registration ( from new hall to st salvator 's is a pleasant 15 mins . walk ) . there will be a wine reception , hosted by the department of german , in st salvator 's hall of residence from 18 . 00 to 19 . 00 . dinner will be at 19 . 00 in st salvator 's hall of residence for all residential participants , i . e . both for those staying at st salvator 's and those staying at new hall . registration will continue from 18 . 00-22 . 00 , and will continue again on thursday 27 august from 8 . 00-11 . 00 . the addresses of the two halls of residence are as follows : st salvator 's hall , north street , st andrews , fife ky16 9az new hall , north haugh , st andrews , fife ky16 9xw travel to st andrews air : the nearest airport is edinburgh . take the airport bus to the main railway station , waverley station , which takes approx . 20 mins . and costs 3 . 50 . or take a taxi , which will cost approx . 14 . then take the train to leuchars railway station , which is on the london ( king 's cross ) - edinburgh - aberdeen main line . trains run between about 7 . 00 and 23 . 00 . the journey takes approx . 1 hr . and costs approx . 13 return . from leuchars take the bus ( 95 , x59 , x60 , direction leven or edinburgh ) to st andrews bus station ; the journey takes 10 mins . and costs 1 . 20 ; buses run every 1 / 2 hour between about 7 . 00 and midnight . to walk from the bus station to both halls of residence takes about 5 mins . or else from leuchars take a taxi , which will cost about 8 . 00 ; there are usually taxis to meet every train . rail : the nearest railway station is leuchars ( 4 miles away ) , on the london ( king 's cross ) - edinburgh - aberdeen main line . see above under air . road : the main route to st andrews by road from the south is via the forth road bridge . continue along the m90 motorway , turning off on the a91 to st andrews . a third circular with updated programme and map of st andrews will be sent out at the end of july to all those registered for the conference . the conference 's home page contains links to the home pages of st andrews , the scottish tourist board , and edinburgh international festival . local organisers : dr christopher beedham dr isabel forbes postal , e-mail , fax , and internet addresses : sle 1998 , department of german , school of modern languages , the university , st andrews , fife ky16 9ph , scotland / uk e-mail : cb1 @ st-and . ac . uk fax : ( 01334 ) 463677 home page : http : / / www . st-and . ac . uk / academic / modlangs / sle98 / sle98 . html 20 march 1998 enc . : provisional programme decision slip ( if you have submitted an abstract ) xxxist annual meeting of the societas linguistica europaea university of st andrews , scotland , 26-30 august 1998 provisional programme presidential address rissanen , matti ( helsinki ) : [ title to be announced ] plenary speakers harweg , roland ( bochum ) : [ title to be announced ] koerner , e . f . k . ( ottawa ) : three saussures - one 's tructuraliste avant la lettre ' robins , r . h . ( london ) : possible landmarks in twentieth century linguistics tobin , yishai ( be ' er sheva , israel ) : one size does not fit all : a semantic analysis of " small / large " vs . " little / big " workshops spoken vs . written languages : their structural and typological differences . organised by werner abraham ( groningen ) modality in generative grammar . organised by sjef barbiers ( leiden ) , frits beukema ( leiden ) , olga tomic ( novi sad ) , milena sheppard ( ljubljana ) , marija golden ( ljubljana ) grammatical categories . organised by kazimierz a . sroka ( gdan ( sk ) section papers andersson , sven - gunnar ( goteborg ) : register - motivated variation of tense and mood in german final clauses introduced by damit ash , sharon ( pennsylvania ) : weakening distinctions in support of dialect differences askedal , john ole ( oslo ) : grammaticalization and the german " recipient passive " with bekommen / erhalten / kriegen bergs , alexander ( dusseldorf ) : social networks in pre - 1500 britain : problems , perspectives , examples bednarikova , bozena ( palacky , czech republic ) : system description or systematic prescription ? bermel , neil ( sheffield ) : can one language have two langues ? claims about literary and common czech burgarski , ranko ( belgrade ) : language and war in yugoslavia buniyatova , isabella ( kiev ) : on the history of non - finite clauses in english and other languages darski , jozef ( poznan ( ) : was ist stamm ? diewald , gabriele ( erlangen ) : the integration of the german modals into the paradigm of verbal mood dobrovol ' skij , dmitrij ( moscow ) : on cross-linguistic equivalence of idioms donadze , natalia ( moscow ) : types of semantic transformations in atlas linguarum europae motivation maps dorodnych , anatolij ( kharkov & poznan ( ) : mentality through language : contrasting associative networks drubig , h . bernhard ( tubingen ) : some general characteristics of morphosyntactic focus marking farkas , judit & veronika kniezsa ( budapest ) : mediaeval street-names of the cities york and lincoln : grammar and orthography fatima , eloeva ( st petersburg ) : pontic dialect : interference on langue and parole levels ( synchronic and diachronic perspective ) fava , elisabetta ( padova ) : the relevance of some methodological distinctions in considering the role of variation in the illocutionary force devices fenk , august , ( klagenfurt ) : picture language - just a metaphor ? fenk-oczlon , gertraud ( klagenfurt ) : german , russian , turkish - a typological comparison forbes , isabel & gabor kiss ( st andrews & budapest ) : colour categorization and colour naming in french and hungarian gamkrelidze , thomas v . ( tbilisi ) : " langue " and " parole " in proto - indo - european reconstructions gruntfest , yaakov ( haifa ) : accusativus / ablativus limitationis in transformational interpretation guermanova , natalia ( moscow ) : perceptions of native languages : cultural-value vs communicative perspectives haftka , brigitta ( potsdam ) : gradadverbiale und subjektbezogene adverbiale im vorfeldtest hajicova , eva ( prague ) : contextual boundness in language system and context dependency in communication hartmann , ralph a . ( st andrews ) : gegen eine lehrbuch - interpretation von saussures langage , langue und parole - ein merkzettel hundsnurscher , franz ( mfcnster ) : phraseologische paarformeln jurewicz , magdalena ( poznan ( ) : interpreted conversations between poles and germans kim , a . ( tomsk ) : on the problem of linguistic universals : semantic cult paradigm kleiner , yuri ( st petersburg ) : epic formula : langue and parole klimonow , wladimir ( berlin ) : einfluss der aspekte auf die umgestaltung der futurparadigmen im russischen komarnitska , larisa ( chernivtsy , ukraine ) : a quantitative approach to investigating semantically related words kotin , mikhail l . ( moscow ) : possessive constructions and the auxiliarization of haben in german kotorova , elizaveta ( tomsk ) : the main factors to identify the equivalent relations in langue and parole krier , fernande ( rennes ) : approach to linguistic dynamics : aspects of standard german in an autobiography of 1905 nedzad , leko ( sarajevo & oslo ) : quantified phrases in russian and bosnian : similarities and differences levitsky , v . , v . drebet , b . ginka , n . kapatruk , j . kiyko , s . kiyko , a . oguy ( chernivtsy , ukraine ) : the problem of polysemy under synchronic , diachronic and panchronic aspects malikouti-drachman , angeliki ( salzburg & cyprus ) : on the formation of hypocoristics in modern greek marle , jaap van ( amsterdam ) : langue and parole in morphological productivity matsumori , akiko ( tokyo ) : reconstruction of the proto - accent - system for mainland japanese dialects mautner , gerlinde ( vienna ) : globalisation . reviewing a megatrend from the perspective of linguistics and elt musolff , andreas ( durham ) : dinosaurs , metaphors and dangerous theories nagle , stephen j . & sara l . sanders ( south carolina ) : redundant complementation in english : pseudo - resumptive that naiditch , larissa ( jerusalem ) : associative and semantic word fields in bilinguals ogourechnikova , natalia ( moscow ) : old icelandic pronominal system in the mythological songs of the edda oguy , a . ( chernivtsy , ukraine ) : polysemy in the panchrony and its regular character omdal , helge ( kristiansand , norway ) : implementation of language norms in norway - success or confusion ? osipova , o . ( tomsk ) : the mystery of consonantal nominal stem-building markers in ancient germanic paducheva , elena v . ( moscow ) : on dynamic approach to systematic polysemy panitz , florian ( oldenburg ) : iterative and habitual perspectivization in texts : a note on the competence - performance interface pantaleo , nicola ( bari , italy ) : constraint and ecart ( langue and parole ) in pre - early modern english translational practices : the vocabulary of ' folly ' in william barclay 's the ship of fools petric , teodor ( maribor , slovenia ) : zum syntaktischen verhalten von funktionsverbgefugen in dialogferneren textsorten platzer , hans ( vienna ) : the loss of oe / me object ellipsis poupynin , youri ( st petersburg ) : aspect , voice and deixis in russian ratkeviciute-miseviciene , joana ( kaunas , lithuania ) : speechology : theory and practice reiter , norbert ( berlin ) : vom nutzen der kombinationskarte und ihrer problematik schellinger , wolfgang ( konstanz ) : the malto noun phrase meets typology : dravidian suffixaufnahme and aufnahme universals schick , ivanka p . ( potsdam ) : doubling clitics and information - structure in modern bulgarian schwarzwald , ora rodrigue ( ramat - gan , israel ) : the adjectival suffix - i in hebrew seuren , pieter a . m . ( nijmegen ) : eubulides as a 20th century semanticist sevic , radmila b . ( novi sad ) : early collections of private documents : the missing link in the diachronic corpora ? sgall , petr ( prague ) : on the interface between langue and parole shimomiya , tadao ( tokyo ) : langue and parole in interdependence skrzypiec , andrzej m . ( wroclaw ) : language and cultural identity in diachronic perspective souleimanova , olga ( moscow ) : the case for dative case sovran , tamar ( tel aviv ) : vagueness as a challenge for natural language semantics tarnyikova , jarmila ( palacky , czech republic ) : discourse perspectives on syntax : the case of sentence adverbials terzan-kopecky , carmen ( maribor , slovenia ) : die sprachokonomie und der konstruktionelle ikonismus durch das prisma des translatorischen handelns valentin , paul ( paris ) : nebensatze als c4udferungen : parole gegen langue ? vezzosi , letizia & dieter stein ( florence & dusseldorf ) : restitutive processes in linguistic change vuckovic , petar ( belgrade ) : on cognitive independence of meaning and form of nouns wasik , zdzislaw ( wroclaw ) : parole and the bilateral sign : between platonism and cartesianism in ferdinand de saussure 's cours de linguistique generale yariv-laor , lihi ( jerusalem ) : notes on the translation of the hebrew bible into chinese : a cross - cultural view zabotkina , vera ( kaliningrad ) : new euphemisms in english : pragmatic approach
