Subject: iascl congress

international congress for the study of child language 12-16 july 1999 university of the basque country san sebastian - donostia basque country - spain call por papers special emphasis topic : child language acquisicion : educational and crosslinguistic perspectives papers in the following areas will be included : bilingualism and second language acquisition discourse language disorders lexicon literacy metalinguistic awareness morphology parent - child communication phonology pragmatics pre - linguistic communication signed languages speech perception and production syntax papers on the acquisition of minority languages are particularly welcome congress languages presentations to be made in basque , english , french and spanish . simultaneous translation into english will be provided for the plenary sessions but only papers read in basque will be translated into english . local committee : itziar idiazabal , jasone cenoz , marma josi ezeizabarrena , margareta almgren ( university of the basque country ) ; andoni barrena ( university of salamanca ) e - mail : fvcongre @ vh . ehu . es http : / / www . vc . ehu . es / iascl99 / iascl . htm plenary speakers dorothy bishop , university of cambridge jean paul bronckart , university of geneva itziar idiazabal , university of the basque country luis enrique lspez , san simon university brian macwhinney , carnegie mellon university jurgen meisel , university of hamburg miquel siguan , university of barcelona papers , posters and symposia the organizers welcome submissions for 20 minute paper presentations , posters and symposia . symposia are expected to last two hours ( including discussion ) and involve at least three and at most six participants ( including the organizer ) . abstracts abstracts for papers , posters and symposia should be submitted in the following format : ( 1 ) for papers and posters five copies of an anonymous abstract ( 200-300 words ) with title , and the area of study in the upper right hand corner for symposia : five copies of an anonymous abstract ( up to 1000 words ) describing briefly each contribution as well as the relations among the individual presentations , with title and the area of study in the upper right hand corner . ( 2 ) all abstracts should include an english translation . ( 3 ) one 10 x 15 cm ( 4 x 6 inch ) card stating : ( i ) title , ( ii ) topic area , ( iii ) audiovisual / computer request , and ( iv ) for each author : a . full name and affiliation b . current address c . e - mail address d . fax number abstracts submitted should represent unpublished work . all submissions will be peer-reviewed anonimously by members of the scientific committee . notification of acceptance or rejection will be sent out by december 1998 ( 4 ) a pc compatible diskette of the abstract is required ( ascii , word6 , word7 , wp5 . 1 , wp6 ) . ( 5 ) abstracts must be received by june 1 , 1998 . ( 6 ) send to : 1999 - iascl congress university of the basque country p . o . box 2111 01006 vitoria - gasteiz basque country spain we regret that we cannot accept electronic submissions . registration the registration fee until february 15 , 1999 is 35 , 000 pts for iascl members ; 23 , 000 pts for students , and 19 . 000 pts for accompanying persons ( includes participation in all social events offered to iascl members ) . late registration will increase the fee with an additional 7 , 500 pts for each category . the fee includes the congress facility , program and abstracts , coffee and refreshments during the meeting , the opening reception , the conference dinner , a sightseeing tour , a " basque evening " , and membership in the iascl until the 2002 congress . participants from countries with currency problems can contact the organizers in order to apply for a registration reduced fee . accommodation five , four and three star hotels near the congress venue in the town area will be available at reduced rates . limited accommodation will also be available in students dorms . the range of prices is given below ( without reduced rates ) : single double five star hotels 24 , 000 pts 30 , 000 pts four star hotels 16 , 800 pts 21 , 000 pts three star hotels 14 , 400 pts 18 , 000 pts two star hotels 11 , 500 pts 14 , 000 pts student dorms 5 , 000 pts detailed information and reduced rates will be given in the third announcement . excursions arrangements for daily excursions may be made during the week of the congress upon request . options include tours to various places of interest such biarritz , st . jean de luz , pamplona - iruqea , bilbao - bilbo , zarautz , loiola , etc . pre - and post-congress tours to france or to spain may be arranged for those who would like to use this opportunity . travel arrangements for special rates for flights are being negotiated with some airlines . the nearest airports are : biarritz at 40 km from san sebastian - donostia , bilbao at 100 km and san sebastian at 20km ( only a limited number of national flights ) . trains from paris , arrive at hendaye / irun and have frequent connections with san sebastian - donostia . trains and couches also run from madrid or barcelona to san sebastian - donostia . deadlines submission of abstracts : june 1 , 1998 . registration fee and hotel deposit : february 15 , 1999 . sponsors university of the basque country basque government : dept . of education and research ; dept . of language policy ; dept . of industry and agriculture . county council fo gipuzkoa city council of san sebastian - donostia gipuzkoa - donostia kutxa bank
