Subject: 

data from : coffee @ northcoastcoffee . com to : date : thu , 07 jan 1999 13 : 55 : 18 pst subject : your free coffee grinder ! reply to remove @ northcoastcoffee . com to remove yourself from our mailing list ( no message or subject necessary ) dear fellow coffee drinker , if you ' ve ever tasted coffee made from beans that were roasted only a few days before , you know what i ' m talking about . we believe that one of life 's simple pleasures is a cup of good coffee . truly great coffee comes from coffee beans ground only moments before being brewed . that 's why north coast coffee would like to give you a free caf mill coffee grinder just for trying our exceptional coffees . here at north coast coffee , we roast your coffee when you order it and not before ! orders that are placed are collected and combined with other orders , and each morning the specific coffees that are needed for that day are roasted . the caf mill coffee grinder has a 1 year warranty and normally retails for $ 25 . it is absolutely free when you join mike 's coffee crew and purchase 2 pounds of the freshest coffee you have ever tasted . to get your free caf mill coffee grinder , go to http : / / www . northcoastcoffee . com / ccrew . htm and look at mike 's coffee crew page . it 's easy to order and within a few days , you ' ll be having fun grinding your own coffee beans and enjoying the best coffee you have ever tasted ! coffee from north coast is not expensive ! for example , columbia supremo is only $ 7 . 50 a pound and guatemalan antigua is $ 7 . 75 per pound . if you like the great flavor of african coffees , look at our kenya aa for $ 12 . 50 a pound and tanzanian peaberry for $ 10 . 00 per pound . becoming part of mike 's coffee crew costs nothing . there are no fees and no commitments that you have to make . when you buy your first 2 pounds of coffee , we ' ll send you the grinder and it is yours to keep , even if you quit after your very first shipment of coffee . how can we make such an offer ? it 's easy . this is great coffee , at a great price and we think that once you try it , you ' re really going to like it . in fact , we think that you ' ll like it so much , you ' ll want to tell your coffee loving friends . sorry ! - - coffee as fresh as north coast 's can't be found in any grocery store nor even at most coffee shops . coffee shops have to stock their coffee for the people that shop for it and that means it sits in their stores for weeks , sometimes even longer ! at north coast coffee , we roast your coffee when you order it and not before ! great coffee is fresh roasted coffee . the freshest coffee ( unless you roast it yourself ) is north coast coffee . so get your free grinder today ! click on http : / / www . northcoastcoffee . com / ccrew . htm and soon you ' ll be drinking the best coffee you have ever tasted ! michael shaffer coffee lover and president north coast coffee company
