Subject: < adv > free investment newsletter !

adv : free stock newsletter , diamonds in the rough . . . " diamonds in the rough " - july , 1999 based upon your internet interests , i thought that you would be interested in our free monthly newsletter called diamonds in the rough . each month the newsletter contains an undervalued public company that is on the verge of making a big move . having spent countless hours searching for emerging stocks that have the potential to make substantial profits , my goal is to show that big winners can be found where others fear to look . if you no longer wish to receive the newsletter , please click here mailto : remove @ stoc100 . com ? subject = remove and send the e-mail . if you are interested in receiving our free newsletter every month please click here : mailto : subscribe @ stoc100 . com ? subject = subscribe ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ letter from the editor : ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ dear readers : rates hiked a quarter point . summer stock fever ? in the past week the market showed signs of a early summer ralley with the indexes showing strength before the federal reserve conference rapped up on wednesday . the volume trailed off and the market was weak before the fed announced they are raising short-term interest rates by a quarter percentage point in a bid to keep inflation low . this is the first rate hike by the central bank 's policy arm in more than two years . the question is now what ? what will the feds do next ? the answer to these questions won't be known for months , but the fomc will be watching closely for any signs for the future . the market spiked after the news with the dow rising 136 points and nasdaq rising 43 points . internet stocks and interest sensitive stocks were affected the most after the announcement . in internet news this week cmgi agreed to buy a 83 % stake in the altavista search engine for $ 2 . 3 billion from compaq computers . cmgi has established itself as one of the internet 's hottest stock picker 's with early investments in lycos , geocities and critical path . cmgi plans to make altavista the centre of its web empire with stakes in more than 40 internet properties the deal also includes two other compaq internet properties , shopping . com and zip2 . com . softbank partners and a boston - based buyout firm are investing $ 40 million in a new york day trading firm , tradescape . com , in exchange for minority equity stakes . this week we have six small cap emerging companies in various industries in our featured stock report . featured stock report : ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ scottsdale scientific , inc . , through it 's wholly owned subsidiary , nutricology , inc . / allergy research group is an innovative leader in research and the formulation of nutritional supplements . scottsdale scientific , inc . is a multi-national company positioned to profit in the $ 92 billion annual neutraceutical market . the company has expanded capacity and established new distribution channels , including the internet through its web site . the company is recognized worldwide for the quality , purity , and efficacy of its nutritional supplement line . this is exemplified by over 6 , 000 physicians and health care practitioners who purchase the products and recommend them to their patients . the company has the management , innovative products , and industry reputation to capitalize on industry trends and growth . this established company is now under taking important initiatives to increase revenues and earnings rapidly over the next few years . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - dot com entertainment group , inc . is an internet software company , specializing in the creation , support , maintenance , promotion , licensing and sale of entertainment and gaming software products for use on the internet . dot com is not an internet gaming company , rather it licenses the use of its proprietary commercial software products and trademarks , such as cyberbingotm to independent , arms-length third parties , who are located in jurisdictions who have embraced and licensed internet gaming . dot com 's sales are generated through its assessment of license fees and royalties from the use of its software , based on the gross sales of its licensees . in addition , dot com also provides licensees with technical support , maintenance , software upgrades , back office support , information and systems consulting services and offers marketing and promotional initiatives in order to generate goodwill in its products internationally . the cyberbingo game has already hosted more than 810 , 000 players , who have played more than 50 , 000 games , resulting in more than us $ 560 , 000 being returned to players as winnings . cyberbingotm is dot com 's initial software offering and is the world 's longest running , fully interactive , java based , internet bingo hall . cyberbingotm 's " scaleable " design permits unlimited players per game . as dot com promotes and markets cyberbingotm internationally , player levels of 1000 players on average per game are achievable . at these levels , annual royalty income to dot com from this one licensee will exceed $ 16 . 5 million and does not include additional support , maintenance and other fees which will be assessed to each licensee as required . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - global business information directory , inc . was founded to provide a vehicle for businesses to market themselves and establish business contacts around the world by utilizing gbid 's services via the internet and the world wide web . company web sites can be found through gbid . com quest , by selecting search industry categories , searching by continent , by country , by state / province or region , and finally by city or and combination of the four . by marketing this web hosting service to the business community , gbdi offer 's a service that is specific , productive and informative . search engines on the internet are currently word search based . any information in word form , put into the search engine would access vast amounts of information stored on the internet that would contain the search word or combination of words . this method of search becomes frustrating and time consuming , and most importantly for the businessperson , unproductive . gbid has solved this problem with the introduction of the gbid quest ; a geographical based search engine dedicated to helping businesses market themselves . company web sites can be found , by selecting search industry categories , searching by continent , by country , by state / province or region , and finally by city or and combination of the four . by marketing this web hosting service to the business community , gbid offer 's a service that is specific , productive and informative . gbid . com will be seeking qualified associate partners ( ap ) , joint venture partners , licensees and strategic allies and utilize their strengths to further the development of the technologies that gbid has created . these partners will take an active part in the development and marketing of the various applications of the technologies . this marketing strategy will enable gbid . com to focus on distributing the use of its intellectual properties wider , faster and better . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - for additional information on any of the featured companies in this newsletter , please click on the following link and tell us which companies that you would like more information on . do n't forget to include your e-mail address or phone number . mailto : moreinfo @ foxlink . net ? subject = more _ information - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - in store media systems , inc . is a six-year - old denver , colorado based consumer marketing and information technology company . the company 's focus is the consumer oriented , coupon promotions industry . isms has invested over $ 7 million to develop proprietary electronic coupon distribution and redemption systems which solve long-standing problems and provide new capabilities for efficiently marketing products in supermarkets and other types of retail stores . in store media systems , inc . ( isms ) is in position to change the way america shops . isms has developed a proprietary in-lane , electronic coupon clearing system - the in $ taclearing system . the in $ taclearing ( system will clear , right at checkout , virtually all coupons currently being distributed by manufacturers across the country . the in $ taclearing system practically eliminates manual clearing and all but eliminates freight and coupon misredemption ( an $ 800 million per year industry savings ) . today , cents-off coupons are the only cash instruments in america that are not cleared electronically . as a result , it takes approximately 44 days from when the coupon is accepted at the supermarket until they are reimbursed . the current physical clearing process also cost manufacturers in excess of $ 800 million per year in shipping and misredemption costs . isms has developed a patent-pending process that could be installed at every supermarket checkout lane to immediately clear and track every coupon redeemed with no need for further handling . total us coupon spending was $ 6 . 2 billion in 1998 . over 249 billion coupons were distributed last year and 4 . 8 billion were redeemed . consumers saved $ 3 . 6 billion dollars by using coupons in 1998 . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - magnum ventures - on april 19 , 1999 , magnum ventures inc . acquired radiotower . com and has applied for a change of name to reflect this event . the expected name will be radiotower . com . the name change is expected to take effect shortly . radiotower . com is a free online directory of radio stations that webcast on the internet . radiotower makes it easy to tune in and listen to over 900 radio stations from around the world in dozens of genres ( top 40 , news , alternative , rock , sports , etc . ) . the company also provides information and descriptions for each station and links to the stations ' own home page . users can select radio stations by name , place , or genre . the company 's mission is to become one of the most informative , entertaining and interactive audio sites on the internet - a full service audio portal to the world . 20 million people currently listen to internet audio . the market is expected to more than double by year 2000 . higher bandwidth and greater pc penetration will fuel additional growth . quality , choices , and reach of internet radio will also increase . much sooner than any of us expect , listening to internet audio will be as commonplace as turning on the radio . radiotower . com launched its service june 9 , 1996 . the company is a pioneer within the industry , developing one of the first web sites with a live audio directory . the company has in depth knowledge of internet and internet audio . the company has regular users , site recognition , and strategic alliances with important industry players . before 1999 , radiotower . com had no marketing budget and already 20 , 000 registered users . the user base has developed from word of mouth , high listings on all major search engines , and links from 1000s of other sites . the site has also received numerous favorable reviews from the l . a . times , hotwired , and the vancouver sun . radiotower . com 's awards include yahoo picks and windows magazine site of the day . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - synergy technologies corporation , through its 75 % - owned subsidiary , carbon resources limited , is developing three proprietary technologies with an estimated combined market potential , through license fees and running royalties , of between $ 400 million and $ 1 . 22 billion over the next ten years . gas - to - liquids ( gtl ) technology gtl is carbon 's revolutionary process for converting the natural gas released during oil production or existing stranded reserves into clean-burning synthetic fuels , which have a $ 7 to $ 10 per barrel premium over conventional fuels . because this process is approximately 30 % less expensive than competing gtl processes and due to mounting political , regulatory and tax pressures on oil and gas companies to help reduce the level of atmospheric co2 ( formed in the atmosphere from released natural gas ) , these companies may now have greatly increased incentive to utilize carbon 's gtl process on a worldwide scale . licensings in the next ten years from just one percent of the current gtl market is estimated to be $ 220 to $ 440 million . heavy oil upgrading carbon owns a 50 percent interest in a proprietary technology that converts so-called heavy oils into lighter oils , which , at current market value , sell for about $ 15 per barrel , twice the price of heavy oils . the current market for heavy oil is now 4 . 5 million barrels per day , six percent of worldwide oil production . many experts believe this market will increase to 25 percent of worldwide oil production by the year 2015 . penetration of only 3 . 5 percent of the current market over the next ten years is anticipated to produce licensing and royalties of at least $ 60 million and could , under most favorable market conditions , reach $ 300 million . microturbine fuel based on recent tests , carbon 's syngen reactor ( a patented and proprietary first phase gtl component ) cheaply and efficiently gasifies crude oil , producing fuel that can be used in microturbines and boilers by oil companies to decrease the cost of power in oil production by eliminating the need for an outside power source . analysts expect the current potential microturbine market to grow by at least 25 percent per year for the foreseeable future . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - for additional information on any of the featured companies in this newsletter , please click on the following link and tell us which companies that you would like more information on . do n't forget to include your e-mail address or phone number . mailto : moreinfo @ foxlink . net ? subject = more _ information - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - disclaimer : diamonds in the rough is not a registered investment advisor or a broker / dealer . this newsletter was compiled from information provided by the companies herein . readers are advised that this information is issued solely for information purposes and is not to be construed as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy . the opinions and analysis included herein are based on sources believed to be reliable and in good faith but no representation or warranty , expressed or implied , is made as to their accuracy , completeness or correctness . this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decisions , nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor . the foregoing discussion contains forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations and differences can be expected . the information contained herein has been provided by the companies to diamonds in the rough for information purposes only ; in addition , the information contained in this report is not intended to be a complete discussion of information regarding some of the current and / or intended business activities of the companies . readers are urged to consult with independent financial advisors with respect to an investment in the shares mentioned herein . investors should review a complete information package on the companies which should include , but not be limited to , the company 's annual report , quarterly report , press releases , as well as all regulatory filings . all information contained in this report should be independently verified with the company mentioned herein . any opinions expressed in this report are statements of judgment as of the date of publication and are subject to change without further notice , and may not necessarily be reprinted in future publications or elsewhere . neither diamonds in the rough nor its officers , directors , partners or employees / consultants accept any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this report or its contents . in order to be in full compliance with the securities act of 1933 , section 17 ( b ) , diamonds in the rough advises the readers of this document that it has received a fee of $ 10 , 000 usd for its efforts in researching , writing , presenting and disseminating the information contained herein . the reader should verify all claims and do their own due diligence before investing in any securities mentioned . investing in securities is speculative and carries a high degree of risk .
