Subject: wow ! a college degree on the internet ? ! ?

a college business degree in months ? ? ? that 's right ! you could " earn " a bachelors , masters or doctorate degree from a well known , prestigious university in months instead of years and it is completely legitimate ! ! how ? by enrolling in one of the many non-traditional degree programs offered by many of the countries top accredited schools . schools such as american university , brigham young , colorado state university , dartmouth , drake , george washington and 100 's of others are all currently offering non-traditional degree programs in almost every field of study ( business , accounting , medical , law etc . . ) and they can , in some cases , be earned in months instead of years and many through correspondence or internet studies . you will never have to leave your home and here 's the best part - - no one will ever know how you earned it unless " you " tell them . * * * competition with technical trade schools have forced the main stream universities to offer alternative degree programs and now " you " can benefit from it ! ! i have compiled a packet that lists over 700 accredited and non-accredited universities that offer such programs and for the small fee of $ 29 . 95 i will send it to you . here 's what you will get : a 270 page document containing - 1 ) a comprehensive list of over 700 us and foreign schools ( over 500 are state or otherwise accredited ) that offer traditional & non-traditional degree programs from a bachelors to a doctorate in almost every field of study . 2 ) information on each school listed that will include degrees offered , how to apply , who to contact and what are the fees and loan / grant information . 3 ) a list of over 50 state agencies that govern university education programs . therefore you can investigate concerns of legitimacy yourself for each individual school . 4 ) finally , just for fun , i will include a list of over 200 universities , commonly known as " diploma mills " which will sell you any degree or diploma you wish . prices range from $ 5 - $ 100 . " is there a doctor in the house ? " simply send $ 29 . 95 in us funds only ( check or money order ) to : john wallace dba wallace sales grp . 341 bittersweet henderson ky 42420 * * don ' t forget your e mail address ! ! i will e-mail it within 48 hrs . after receiving your order . thank you . further questions ? drop me a line at the address above . * * the reason there is no valid e - mail address attached to this offer is due to the fact that it has been disabled on several occasions by an illegal practice called " mail bombing " . * * the " physical address " above is that of the wallace sales grp , and home office of it 's ownership . scams almost always use a p . o . box . this address can be verified through are code 502 information . just ask for " wallace " on bittersweet ln . . henderson ky * * all customers will be given a valid e-address upon ordering . * * if you would like to be excluded from other offers , please respond to the address above . a confirmation letter of your removal will be sent to you as well as a refund of your stamp . i will honor all requests for removal ! ! .
