Subject: re : 5 . 1500 comparative method , polarization & review

i be forward the follow for post at the request of robert rankin ( rankin @ ukanvm . cc . unkan . edu ) . i do not subscribe to this list and have no wish to join the fray at present , but when my name be mention sometime the file be forward to me vium e-mail . thus the follow : andy anderson cite me on three point in a series of recent posting . i have know andy upward of 30 year and do not feel that he would in - tentionally misrepresent my view , but i also feel a couple of thing need clarification . first , i be uncomfortable about be formally cite as a ( secondary ) source of information on lyle campbell 's paper from the boulder ( green - berg ) conference of ca . 1990 . if andy wish to distribute an attack on the paper or its author in write form , he should first obtain an actual copy of it or , alternatively , await its publication . i guess i should n't have bring it up in our conversation at the ssila / aaa meeting . second , i be say to have report that the geneticist who have study the mitochondrial dna ( mtdna ) of sundry native american and siberian peo - ple claim that there be / be " two subgroup within amerind ( aside from the eskimo and athabaskan ) . " this be not what i ( or the paper 's author wallace , torronus and schurr , et al . ) say . the author do not address themselve to the linguistic problem and most certainly do n't talk about " subgroup " . nor do i , since i do not regard the historicity of anything like " amerind " as even remotely establish . the author of the paper do posit at least four " migration " . they do not discuss the most recent , eskomo - aleut , in their abstract , but i think they give a time depth figure of about 6000 year bp ( before present ) for it orally - - do n't quote me . from their abstract : for what they call na - dene their figure be 7000-10000 year bp . then they say they have evidence for at least two " migration " precede that . one come between 12000-15000 bp and the earliest between 26000-34000 bp . figure as high as 40000 bp be mention orally , as i recall . they do not attempt to correlate their figure with our knowledge of period of glaciation or the periodic existence of the land bridge in beringium . i leave it to reader to decide what this portend for the amerind hypo - thesis or its propose ( glotto ) chronology , but a warn be in order in any event . note that i have write " migration " in quote above . this be not because i wish to pejorate the term ; it be because geneticist use it in a very special way . for them it have to do solely with the ap - pearance of specific genetic material in american population . they then assume a common ancestor and calculate the number of millennium by posit a uniform mutation rate for mtdna . the material and theory they work with force this definition of migration on them . all this say nothing about the situation " on the grind . " in reality though , each of these genetic migration can have include many distinct movement of people across beringium over a great many year - - perhap century or even millennium . and they may have represent many ling - guistic group . all that be require in order for entire cluster of migration " on the grind " to get read as a single mtdna " migration " be a relatively homogeneous gene pool in eastern siberium over the particular time span when the " genetic mutation " occur . the evidence do indeed suggest four genetic migration , but it really say little or nothing about how many " real " migration there be with - in each of the four cluster , nor do it say anything about linguistic diversity - - much less " subgroup of amerind . " we may wish it do , but it do n't . i do note with interest however the rough correlation between the geneticist ' oldest figure and the calculation of nichol ( 1990 in language 66 . 3 ) base on linguistic diversity in the western hemisphere . the more recent set of mtdna date fall within the esta - blish archaeological ballpark for clovi believer , although the earliest set certainly do not . one very short contribution of my own here - - mostly my wife 's actually , since she be a molecular geneticist and we talk about these thing over breakfast . the yardstick use by mtdna geneticist in these cal - culation may not be appreciably better than that use in glottochrono - logy , i . e . , genetic mutation take place at a rate which be only rela - tively constant . it can be speed up by various singular event from cosmic ray bombardment to ingest certain fungus infect the grain from your cache pit . biologist try to allow for this sort of thing , but as you can see from the plus / minus date for each cluster , we be not talk about something as precise as dendrochronology or even radiocarbon date . the mtdna study be very interest but we must bear in mind their limitation and special use of the term " migration " . lastly , in an earlier post andy mention that i have examine green - berg 's notebook and determine how he have mislabele so much of his siouan datum in lia . andy 's description of the way the notebook be lay out be correct , but i have only actually see xerox of the page of siouan entry , not the notebook themselve . i may add that the siouan entry in the notebook be hard by the iroquoian , caddoan , yuchus entry demonstrate once again that greenberg have decide on the final classification of these family when he lay out his notebook design and before the vocabulary from the language be enter . my thanks to john koontz for post this . sincerely , bob rankin ( university of kansa ) ( rankin @ ukanvm . cc . ukan . edu )
