Subject: word that be their own opposite ( part 2 )

in my last summary ( linguist 6 . 74 ) i list a collection of what i call auto-antonym - - word that have two opposite meaning . for example , to " clip " may mean to cut a little piece off , or to put a little piece on . to " look over " may mean careful scrutiny or that you miss an important detail . sometime the antonymy may be historical : " nice " use to denote an unpleasant quality . in that summary , i promise a discussion of whether any generality could be make about such pair . are they regularly motivate , or alway a coincidence ? i ' m still edit the response to that question . meanwhile , here be more auto-antonym that get leave out of last post : one auto-antonym that i seem to have overlook in prepare my post , although i remember look it over many time before , be " moot " , which at once means " suitable for debate " and " not worth discuss " . impregnable : able to impregnate or inable to be pregnate , as joel hoffman point out . cope ( s ) mate : use to mean antagonist and now means partner or comerade , say ariadna solovyova , who get the word off of anu garg 's a . word . a . day mail list . it turn out that they be have a week celebrate " fence-setter " , evidently another term for what i ' ve be call auto-antonym . bruce nevin remind us of an intercontinental auto-antonym pair : " public school " in britain be " private school " in the usa and vice versa . infer : historically ( and now , informally ) this means " imply " as well . rend , lease : several point out to me that these means both lend and borrow . in addition , dan myers write to tell me that chinese operate similarly with respect to this pair , and wolfgang lipp note a similar auto-antonymy to represent " give " and " take " in pronunciation ( shou4 ) but not in write . learn / teach : in " sub " - standard english , these two meaning fuse into " learn " , as they do in standard russian " uchit ' " here be some of my personal favorite that i leave out of the first summary : sensitive : this may describe either someone with profound understand for the feeling of other , and tolerate difference of opinion ( thus " sensitivity train " for group leader ) as well as a paranoid who do n't listen to what people be really say , and decide to take everything as a personal insult . hole / whole : spell the first way , an entire absence of matter ; the second , entire presence . this remind me of " pit " which can be either a hollow or the stone of a fruit . which remind me of " seed " orange ( insert your favorite fuit here ) - - orange with seed ( as oppose to navel orange , which have no seed ) , or orange that have have their seed remove . if you think you ' re begin to see some pattern here , you ' re not alone ! as i say , i ' ve receive a few theory on the ultimate essence of auto-antonymy , historical , psychological , and sociological approach . these theory show that auto-antonymy come about for a variety of reason . in a short while , i ' m go to put up a summary of these theory . then , i ' ll briefly cover relate linguistic phenomenon , such as word with synonym that look suspiciously like antonym : flammable / inflammable , ravel / unravel . oh , and by the way , it turn out i be not the first to come up with the term " auto-antonym . " dennis baron inform me that he use the term " autoantonymy " on page 73 of his 1989 book / decline grammar and other essay on the english vocabulary / . - - alex eulenberg ( aeulenbe @ indiana . edu ) - - indiana university
