Subject: genetic classification

i wish to make some comment on an issue that recent discussion of nostratic and the problem of " demonstrate " distant genetic relationship have skirt around that i believe underlie some of the issue that various people have be directly address . an assumption that seem to underly much of the discussion be that hypothesis regard genetic relationship be not interest unless they can be prove to be true . i find this a rather odd assumption , and one that do not seem to be make about any other kind of hypothesis in linguistics ( or anywhere else in science as far as i know ) . and let us set aside for the sake of argument the oft-note point that the notion of proof be not really applicable to empirical hypothesis , and assume that the term be to be use loosely for some arbitrary high level of certainty . it seem fair to say that there be a fairly widespread disinterest in hypothesis like the nostratic hypothesis because it be widely believe ( and i will assume it be true here for the sake of argument ) that the available evidence for nostratic fall short of this imaginary level of certainty which deserve the label " prove " . a common type of reaction to unproven hypothesis be that it have not be demonstrate that the observe similarity may not be due to chance and / or borrow . but suppose that someone be to take the same attitude toward comparative reconstruction of protolanguage . suppose that someone be to object to comparative reconstruction of anything but very shallow group on the grounds that one can never prove that the reconstruction be correct . just as one can object to certain claim of genetic relationship on the grounds that one cannot conclusively eliminate the possibility that the observe similarity may be due to accident and / or borrow , one could equally well object to virtually all hypothesis surround comparative reconstruction on the grounds that one cannot conclusively eliminate alternative possibility . the comparative method be a way to come up with the best guess one can make about a protolanguage ; it never provide proof that the reconstruction be in fact correct . so why bother do it ? the answer should be obvious : hypothesis which represent our best guess at any point in time be what much of science be about . by why do so many linguist seem to object to apply the same way of think to hypothesis about genetic relationship ? why be it that many historical linguist find the hypothesis like the nostratic hypothesis either laughable or upset ? why do n't they react the same way to comparative reconstruction , since they also be " unproven " ? why do n't they rush out and read everything they can find on nostratic and conclude " the evidence be tantalize but not conclusive ; it 's a really excite hypothesis " ? why be there such a double standard ? i want to suggest an answer to this question , an answer which , if right , provide insight into the nature of many debate surround controversial hypothesis of genetic relationship . namely , some people find question of genetic classification intrinsically interest , quite apart from any detail historical work that play a role in support hypothesis . other people , however , be primarily interest in the detail historical work itself , and do not find question of genetic classification intrinsically interest , but only interest in so far as they be an inevitable consequence of historical work . people of the first sort be more likely to find recent work reclassify penutian language excite , while people of the latter sort be unlikely to react that way , unless they be penutian specialist . as one move back in time , the ability to apply the comparative method become increasingly difficult , and detail historical work become increasingly speculative ( and to many historical linguist , dissatisfy ) . but at any time depth , we can alway be much more confident of the genetic classification than we can of any comparative reconstruction . our confidence in indo - european as a language family be surely greater than our confidence in any specific claim about proto - indo - european . but as we move further back in time , we should expect there to be hypothesis that we cannot be entirely confident of , but for which there be at least some promise evidence , where any comparative reconstruction be go to be sufficiently speculative as to not be satisfy to linguist interest in traditional comparative work . and since these linguist be not interest in genetic classification except as a biproduct of detail historical work , such linguist be likely to find the hypothesis uninterest . on the other hand , for linguist who find question of genetic classification inherently interest , the fact that detail historical work may not be possible be irrelevant , and the fact that the hypothesis be unproven or unprovable may be no more a source of concern than the fact comparative reconstruction be alway unproven and unprovable . if this view be correct , much of the debate surround controversial hypothesis in genetic classification be base , not on substantive question , but simply on what sort of question different people find interest . matthew dryer
