Subject: re : 6 . 6 greenberg ( again . . . sigh )

) 3 ) ) deat : thu , 22 dec 1994 21 : 2 - 320 ( est ) ) from : mike _ maxwell @ sil . org ) subject : evidence against greenberg ? ) ) perhap the best evidence against greenberg 's hypothesis would be to show ) that his method , when apply * in the same way * to randomly choose sample ) of language of the earth ( include some amerindian language ) , group them ) in the same way and with the same degree of ( un ) certainty as those method ) group amerindian language ( less the athabaskan language ) together . ( i ) put the star around " in the same way " because one can easily distort ) someone else 's method . ) as i understand it , some people have try ) apply greenberg 's method to one amerindian language and one other ) language ( finnish be one such , i believe ) , but i have never hear of a ) large-scale comparison be do in this way . ( and i believe greenberg ) say his method be best use for mass comparison , not one-on - one . ) ) here we go again . some bean counter some day will tot up the number of time " greenberg " occur here and will rate the correspond work as " highly influential " . never mind . there be no difference between mass comparison and pair comparison . when you engage in mass comparison you carry out a large number of pair comparison . the greater the number of comparison , the more chance you have of find cognate . . and chance resemblance . take two dice and roll them . how often will they show the same score ? take a bagful of them and empty it onto the floor . match galore . but that do not matter . we ' ve have recently a long , long , exchange on the comparative method , in which alexis manaster ramer make a point - - which he seem to believe as important - - that no language have be find to retain less than 86 % of some sample wordlist ( swadesh 's 100 ? doe n't matter as you shall soon see ) per thousand year . the claim be false , but never mind , i ' ll grant it as true . i ' ll even grant you 90 % retention . america , they say , be populate 18 , 0 year ago . well , not so , evidence from brazil now seem to push it back to 50 , 0 bp . but i ' ll grant you 18 , 0 bp . and that everybody since the great cross be careful not to be linguistically overly innovative , so that there exist at least two maximally distant language which have retain 90 % of their vocabulary millennium in millenium out . today you could expect to see between them 0 . 9 ^ ( 18 * 2 ) = 0 . 149 , i . e . 2 . 25 % word in common . on that famous 100 - item highly stable " basic " vocabulary . so that 's your proto - amerind reconstitute . now , of course , we have not take chance resemblance into account . if you remember greenberg scus . am . article and his calculation , he estimate the probability of chance resemblance at 1 in 250 . but he forget that he allow a bite of metathesis . in fact , if you read carefully ruhlen 's " on the origin of language " complete anagram , since he list irish " bligim " as cognate with his * malk ' a . there be six way in which you can combine 3 consonant , so that be really one chance of resemblance in 42 ( 250 / 6 = a tad under 42 ) . using their figure , then , how many chance resemblance show you expect to find in a 100 - item wordlist ? 100 / 42 = 2 . 38 . bingo ! more than real cognate after 18 , 0 year with very conservative language . now , * if * america be really populate 50 , 0 year ago we should see 0 . 9 ^ ( 50 * 2 ) = 0 . 1454 % of your 100 - item list preserve . that 's one word in 37 , 649 . so out of every pair of 100 - item list you will find , on the average , 1 / 37649 * 100 = 0 . 23 wrod in common . mean that you can look forward to examine some 376 pair before you find one single cognate . but thanks to mass comparison , you be sure to find it . only compare 50 seemingly * unrelate * language ( because you want to pick maximally distant language ) . that give you 50 * ( 50 - 1 ) / 2 = 1225 pairwise comparison . with a bite of luck , that will give 3 or 4 cognate , each attest by 2 or 3 language . . . . and stack of spurious resemblance , each attest by far many more language than your true cognate . perhap america be not populate 50 , 0 year ago . but australium be at least 40 , 0 bp . that do not prevent some from reconstruct proto - australian . and try to link it to indo - european . enough fun with figure . why do n't you try to * simulate * a paltry 30 , 0 year worth of evolution of 30 language each represent by 100 word , with a one-in - 250 ( see how generous i be ) chance of resemblance ? ( warn : advertisement follow ) download glotto02 . zip from from directory / pc / linguistics at garbo . uwasa . fus , unzip it , read the documentation about program glotsim , glottree do it , and see . ( de toute facon , autant souffler dan un violon . c ' est tellement plus rigolo d ' aller s ' imaginer qu ' on peut demeler le passe perdu dan la nuit de temp ) . j . guy @ trl . oz . au
