Subject: summary of name of day

dear linguists , in the december 15 issue of linguist i post a request for example of deictic expression for the name of day either side of " today " . here be the summary of what i obtain . the response be overwhelm - a total of 70 linguist subscriber send reply . many , many thanks to all of you who contributed . quite a number of respondent supply information on two or more language . there be some duplication of language , namely japanese , mandarin chinese , danish , french , german , russian and hindus . i now have example of 48 language , they be : anejom ( vanuatu ) , a = fee a = fee ( solomon is ) , azerbaijanus turkish , basque , bauan ( standard fijian ) , brazilian portuguese , bulgarian , czech , danish , dutch , english , erromagan ( vanuatu ) , estonian , finnish , french , german , hausa , hawaus ` ian , hindustanus , ipilus ( png ) , italian , japanese , kamhmu ? ( vietnam ) , kus - swahilus , kope ( png ) , korean , lao / phasa iisaan , lenakel ( vanuatu ) , madarin chinese , malay , mauritian / seychelle creole , modern greek , modern hebrew , norwegian , polish , quechua , rumanian , russian , samoan , serbo - croatian , slovene , sulka ( png ) , swedish , taiwanese , thaus , welsh . my original interest in collect such deictic expression stem from a general interest in symmetry in language and language system . most language exhibit a symmetry in the number of deictic expression for diurnal unit either side of " today " , however , some exhibit an asymmetry . c . s . levinson ( pragmatic , 1983 : 75 ) report , " the amerindian language chinantec have four name day either side of today ; japanese have three day back from today , and two ahead ; hindus have the same word for yesterday and tomorrow . " ( levinson glean this information from : fillmore , c . j . ( 1975 ) . santa cruz lecture on deixi , 1971 . mimeo , indiana university linguistic club . ) i have not personally be able to get a hold of this the fillmore reference - live in the academically isolate south sea do have some drawback ! if any of you have a copy of this publication , i would be very interest in obtain photocopy of the section on ` time deixi ' . of course , i will reimburse you for the cost of postage and photocopy . anyway , a symmetrical deictic system of diurnal unit / span seem to me logical , though i ' m not sure i can verbalise the reason . the report asymmetry in the japanese system seem to me a bite odd . especially that the asymmetry be lop-side toward the past ( see below for reason ) . upon further examination , i discover that the japanese deictic system for diurnal unit do seem to be symmetrical ; it have + 3 and - 3 either side of the present diurnal span . the expression ` siasatte / yanoasatte ' mean + 3 day from " today " be not know to quite an number of native speaker of japanese . they appear to be use infrequently and ` yanoasatte and yaneasatte ' be consider to be dialectal ( at least in relation to the tokyo dialect ) . indeed , the lecturer in japanese in my department ( herself a native speaker of japanese ) be not aware of these expression until she look them up in her dictionary . another interest consideration in all of this be the question as to the number of diurnal unit before and after today that language recognise . what be the maximum / minimum number of unit ? also , what be the average number of unit ( or most popular system ) ? answer to these question ( base on my small sample ) below . one respondent ask the follow very interest question : " if you reach the level of , let 's say , 5 ( day after present diurnal span ) , do this also have the non-specific read ` at some point in the not-to - far-away future ' in those language ? " the only language in my small corpus that have + 5 and - 5 diurnal unit in its system be erromangan ( vanuatu ) . i will have to ask my source for erromangan to answer this question . there be an inherent problem in determine the number expression for diurnal unit . this be determine whether the expression be lexeme or phrase . many language seem to have " lexicalise " ( for want of a better term ) prepositional / nominal phrase . other language , like for example the english expression ` the day before yesterday ' , have retain the phrase structure . one respondent supply me with a lengthy discussion on the lexeme / phrase issue . she cite the case of bulgarian ( i hope she win mind my include her discussion here ) : [ begin quote ] bulgarian present an [ interest ] situation with regard to the phrase / lexeme issue because it do n't have a real nominal case paradigm : onzus den - 2 ( light . " that / yonder day " ) vchera - 1 dne 0 present diurnal span utre + 1 vdrugus den + 2 ( light . " other day " ) so the same form ' pozavchera ' in bulgarian ( with stress on the penultimate syllable ; russian ' pozavchera ' have stress on the final syllable ) perhap do n't look as strange because one would n't expect ' po ' to require any particular case end . however , again we have what look like a preposition with an adverb , which should not exist as a phrase . bulgarian " tomorrow " be ' utre ' . but " the day after tomorrow " be ' vdrugiden ' - - i . e . , the phrase ' v drugus den ' ( light . " on ( the ) other day " , write without space in between the individual word . should this be consider a word simply on orthographic grounds , though ? is it a prepositional phrase or an adverb ? of course the boundary between prepositional phrase and adverb be very fuzzy to begin with . bulgarian " the day before yesterday " , in contrast , be what look like a noun phrase : ' onja den ' - - " that day " . no preposition ' v ' ( " on " ) here . so should this be consider just an np or a prepositional phrase ? ' onja den ' be use the same way as ' vdrugiden ' - - ' vidjax go onja den ' - - " i see him [ on ] the day before yesterday " . it seem to me that what 's write as a noun phrase here be really an adverb , like ' vdrugiden ' or like russian ' pozavchera ' and ' poslezavtra ' , the only difference be that the other three adverb be form from prepositional phrase while ' onja den ' have no preposition . it would sound strange to call it a prepositional phrase , because , unlike ' vdrugiden ' , it contain no preposition . so i would call it an adverbial phrase . ( time expression in slavic language be commonly in the accusative , and that may be the origin of ' onja den ' , but since modern bulgarian have lose its nominal case paradigm for the most part this make it harder to determine the status of phrase like this one . ( cf . russian ' kazhduju nedelju ' ( " each - acc week - acc " ) , which means " every week " in an adverbial sense . ) bulgarian do n't have specific word for " the day before the day before yesterday " - - that would be , i think , ' v denja predus onja den ' ( " on the day before the day before yesterday " ) , but of course speaker would avoid that and just would say ' predus dva dena ' ( " two day ago " , light . " before two day " ) . the same would be true for ' vdrugiden ' - - ' v denja sled vdrugiden ' be conceivably possible ( " on the day after the-day - after-tomorrow " ) , but speaker would say 's lead dva dena ' ( " in / after two day " ) . so i think it may be very difficult here to draw a demarcation line here between the grammatical category of word v . phrase . [ end of quote ] quite a number of language ( especially slavonic and germanic language ) allow recursion of preposition / prefix to " add on " to the already exist deictic expression . the extent to which this recursion can be practice be limit only by pragmatic constraint . here be some nice example : rumanian : ras-ra - ras-alaltaierus ( ? ) - 5 ras-ra - alaltaierus ( ? ) - 4 ras-alaltaierus - 3 alaltaierus - 2 ierus - 1 azus / astazus 0 present diurnal span miine + 1 poimiine + 2 ras-poimiine + 3 ras-ra - poimiine ( ? ) + 4 ras-ra - ras-poimiine ( ? ) + 5 etc . dutch : ( eer-eergisteren ) + 3 eergisteren + 2 gisteren - 1 vandaag 0 present diurnal span morgen + 1 overmorgen + 2 ( over-overmorgen ) + 3 danish : ( i for-forgar - 3 ) i forgar - 2 i gar - 1 i dag 0 present diurnal span i morgen + 1 i overmorgen + 2 ( i over-overmorgen + 3 the - 3 and + 3 form be rather colloquial , but nevertheless perfectly idiomatic . further recursion of prefix / preposition be only use in jocular way , and predominantly by child . finally , if you have read this far , you be about to be reward with a summary of the datum i have at this point . number of diurnal unit either side of " today " : symmetrical deictic systems - 1 0 + 1 no examples - 2 - 1 0 + 1 + 2 23 examples - 3 - 2 - 1 0 + 1 + 2 + 3 14 examples - 4 - 3 - 2 - 1 0 + 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 3 examples - 5 - 4 - 3 - 2 - 1 0 + 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 1 example - erromangan ( vanuatu ) asymmetrical deictic systems - 2 - 1 0 + 1 + 2 + 3 3 examples - 2 - 1 0 + 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 1 example - malay - 2 - 1 0 + 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 1 example - hausa - 3 - 2 - 1 0 + 1 + 2 1 example - colloquial spanish ( southern spain ) it 's interest to note that no language in the sample employ the - 1 0 + 1 system . and the majority of asymmetrical system be lop-side toward the + side of the present diurnal span . why this should be so , i do n't know . however , this sample be very small and perhap a larger sample would show no such lop-sidedness toward the + " today " side . are the language that show a lop-sidedness in a state of change ? most language have a symmetrical vowel system e . g . the same number of front vowel as back vowel . however , there be quite a number of language with asymmetrical vowel system . what lie behind this asymmetry ? the answer to this question may lie in the follow scenario [ from : crowley , t . ( 1992 ) an introduction to historical linguistic , oup , pp . 200-201 ] suppose that in a language with a nice symmetrical five vowel system : i u e o a the vowel / e / beocome raise toward / i / and ultimately merge merge with / i / . the result asymmetrical system : i u o a will put structural pressure on the system , and , in time , it would not be surprise to see / o / merge with / u / . if a system become asymmetrical ( or uneven ) so as to create some sort of ` gap ' , then a change be likely to take place as a way of plug that ` gap ' , thereby re-establish an even ( or symmetrical ) system . if this be indeed a natural process in phonological system , perhap analogous process occur in other system , like temporal deictic system . a language with an asymmetrical temporal deictic system may be in the process of historical change and the ` gap ' plug in due time . japanese may be a language that be in the process of lose its + 3 deictic term . if this be indeed the case , it would be interest to see whether , in due course , this " imbalance " be " balance " again by the loss of its - 3 deictic term . i do n't know how valid any of this be , i ' m just speculate . anyway , back to symmetry . the most symmetrical system of all be that find in hindus : tarso - 4 narso - 3 parso - 2 kal - 1 aaj 0 present diurnal span kal ( bihaan ) + 1 parso + 2 narso + 3 tarso + 4 where there be not only an equal number expression for diurnal unit either side of " today " , but the expression on either side be the same . distinction between " before today " and " after today " be make through use of past or future tense of the verb . in look at a language 's temporal deictic system i guess we must not fail to take account of a number of important linguistic / cultural aspect . among these would be : * the culture 's view of time . is it a linear view or a cyclical view ? * the language 's tense / aspect system . * the historical development of its deictic expression in short , we can't study deictic in isolation . we must look at how it mesh grammatically with the language . i would be very interest in any of your view on the reason for symmetry and asymmetry we find in this area of deixi . also , if you be interest in add to my list of language , i 'd be very grateful to receive your contribution . thank again to all those generous people who send me so much interest datum and opinion . yours today , tomorrow and . . . jan tent department of literature and language school of humanity the university of the south pacific p . o . box 1168 suva fiji tel : ( 679 ) 313900 ext . 2263 fax : ( 679 ) 305053 e - mail : tent _ j @ usp . ac . fj = 09
