Subject: n-ary comparison

( 1 ) very strongly support alexis mr 's message on n-ary comparison be stronger than binary comparison . as real mind work , it be the pragmatic of not go down false trail which be at issue . i be puzzle only by what he mention as an exceptional case , that be , how ternary comparison could * * * ever * * * be worse than binary . even if a third language be include which be more divergent , have more loan vocabulary , or whatever , and therefore pose extra problem or barrier . that be not a consequence of the ternary status in the comparison , because if the same language be include as one member of a binary comparison , the same problem would presumably be there . ( 2 ) i do not respond earlier only because of lack of time . the preference for n-ary comparison , the claim that n-ary be only a multiple of binary , be obviously false , just as the notion that one should not be engage in comparison if one need to use a dictionary be obviously false ( alouse faber answer that one , that if that restriction have be enforce , our knowledge would be far less than it now securely be ) . both of these suppose restriction be for the convenience of the linguist analyst , artificially restrict the datum available so as to make it seem as if the analyst 's knowledge be more complete for the task than it be , and give a greater ( but artificial ) sense of psychological security . it go along with the statement by some historical linguist that they " never want to make a mistake " . of course none of us do , but some be will to in order to advance knowledge , and even those who do not want to cannot make themselve immune . the very act of disregard datum which be " too far afield " can sometime lead to mistake . alway possible when try to * discover * answer when we do not know the answer in advance . rather , we be all human , and gigantic problem will be beyond any of us to completely solve ( attempt at partial solution do not imply guilt or wrongdo ) . this in no way imply we should not attempt to solve those problem . we should be tolerant of other ' effort and use the best part of them , alway . ( 3 ) j " org knappen 's suggestion of " family , class , and order " a la the biologist do seem useful . can we have suggestion as to clue when we should use one or the other of such term ? presumably some more sophisticate measure of degree of share genetic material would be most analogous to the biological usage , rather than a simple lexicostatistical measure ? lloyd anderson
