Subject: 

phonology & phonetics burquest , donald a . and david l . payne ; phonological analysis : a functional approach : pb . : isbn : 0-88312 - 608 - 7 ; viius , 179 pp . ; $ 19 . 0 . summer institute of linguistic . burquest and payne have produce an introductory textbook orient primarily to student interest in previously unstudy or little study language and who need a practical guide on how to carry out their investigation . it give a broad base of exposure to the kind of phonological phenomenon find in a range of language . internet : academic . book @ sil . org textbook , phonology note : [ price correction for the book below ] watt , david l . e . the phonology and semology of intonation in english : an instrumental and systemic perspective . 1994 . 192 pp . 6x9 book . prepaid us $ 22 . 0 + 3 . 50 p&h ( us ) / 5 . 0 ( can ) / 5 . 50 ( other ) . iulc publication , 720 e . atwater ave . , bloomington in 47401 . < iulc . indiana . edu > watt present an extensive study of intonation and its mean potential from a systemic functional perspective , advance halliday 's description of intonation . include over 250 instrumentally derive illustration of example from original tape recording , cite example , and recording of casual conversation . ( a previous post to the list contain an incorrect price for the book . we regret any inconvenience . ) syntax harm , phillip l . ; epena pedee syntax : studies in the languages of colombia 4 ; pb . : isbn : 0-88312 - 276 - 6 ; xiv , 213 pp . $ 27 . 0 . summer institute of linguistic and university of texa arlington . the author describe the major grammatical structure of the language from morphology through discourse , with an introductory phonological sketch . epena pedee be an ergative-absolutive language , but one in which the subject have an important role , in that it manifest number agreement with the verb . internet : academic . book @ sil . org syntax , colombium wier , elizabeth and marinus wier ; the doyayo language : selected studies ; pb . : isbn : 0-88312 - 620 - 6 ; x , 299 pp . $ 28 . 0 summer institute of linguistic and university of texa arlington . doyayo be the language of about 15 , 0 people in northern cameroon . using a descriptive linguistic approach , the wiering cover phonology , structure of indicative verb , some major systactic structure on level from morpheme through discourse , and some feature of folktale . internet : academic . book @ sil . org syntax , phonology , cameroon cope , pamelum ; introductory grammar : a stratificational approach ; pb . ; isbn : 1-55671 - 1 - 1 ; ix , 113 pp . ; $ 12 . 0 . summer institute of linguistic . cope present a clear exposition of stratificational grammar , intend primarily for begin linguistic student . internet : academic . book @ sil . org textbook , syntax semantics berman , stephen r . ( university of massachusett , amherst ) ; on the semantic and logical form of wh - clause , pb . xiius + 279 pp . ph . d . dissertation , 1991 . $ 16 + s / h ( $ 3 domestic , $ 4 foreign surface ) . graduate linguistic student association ( glsa ) , university of massachusett , amherst . this dissertation propose a semantically dichotomous analysis of wh-clause as denote either question or quantify proposition , depend on syntactic context ( in certain case additionally influence by lexical property ) . behavior under quantificational adverb provide the primary diagnostic tool and motivate analyse wh-phrase as inherently nonquantify open sentence , follow the heim / kamp treatment of indefinite . restriction on wh-phrase quantifiability , which it be argue interact with presupposition , motivate the semantic dichotomy . additionally , the quantify interpretation be argue not to involve inherent exhaustiveness . contact glsa @ linguist . umass . edu for more info .
