Subject: language and species

a few post on the subject have please me : i be perhap not alone in have eccentric belief about non-human language . it have start when i be hop , after finish my phd , to work on dolphin ' language ; it have continue when i read , somewhere , that the deaf 's sign language be not a language ( how do those people whom i see meet regularly in the pub down the road communicate , then , if they do not have a language ? i often envy them be stone deaf - - curse with hear as i be , i dislike noisy pub and restaurant ) . a that stage , it get me think that " proper " human language deal with encode an n-dimensional conceptual universe into one-dimensional string ( perhap with a degenerate dimension extra , if you pay attention to prosodic feature ) . that , sign language , on the other hand , encode it into definitely two dimension or more - - even though i could not figure out how many , let alone which , have find so little in the literature ( just as anyone do linguistics should know at least a few foreign language , perhap , perhap they should know at least some sign language , and have practice it . when i say " perhap " i mean " definitely " , of course . " perhap " be a euphemism , a weak excuse for not have take the time to learn and practice sign language ) . later , about dolphin ' language , no * cetacean * in this case , i read , somewhere , the circumstance under which orc have learn to avoid boat equip with harpoon gun , which seem to mean that they must have be " tell " how to recognize them by the first to meet those boat for the first time . this seem too efficient . you just try to explain to someone how to recognize a contraption never encounter before . no paper and pencil , just word . misunderstanding galore . that get me think about another possible form of communication . cetacean " see " by sonar , like bat . they communicate , we read , by sound , in a very wide range ( a few hertz to 100khz or more if memory serve ) . what if they actually communicate by * project * sonar image then ? painting as it be , along with stylize representation . animate too , that 's quite possible . later again , i tie that in with what some will tell you about the intelligence of bird , how some mynah bird seem to understand a few word and use them in the proper context . the complexity of bird song . the hopelessness of some scheme dream up to find out if animal communicate through language strike me now . putt bird , or whatever , in different cage or pen , train one set to push the third lever from the leave to get food ; see if they communicate their discovery to the those in the other pen . if they communicate by project sonar image we be look for the needle in the haystack . by song modulation , ditto . there would be , at any rate , dozen , nay , hundred of way of explain " push the third lever " . how would * you * say " lever " if you have never have anything like it in your environment ? " third " ? " from the leave " ? so even if they jabber in a human-like language , one phoneme after the other , we would have a very hard time of spot their exchange . you know the story about how they say " piano " in beach - la - mar : " big fella box , he get black and white tooth , missus belong white master he fight ' im belong him , box he cry now " . there 's more than one way to say " piano " that way ! i have , then , come to this notion that , when we meet non-human , sentient being , we probably win recognize the fact . that those definition ( and redefinition ) of language as human language with these and those feature , and if it have n't get it then it be n't language , be utterly uninterest . they would be at best entirely useless , only vacuous tautology ( be n't that self-reference ! ) . but in fact they can only be obnoxious , lead to method incapable of recognize and analyze " non-human " language . such as asl ( insert a sarcastic smiley here ) . to conclude on a relate theme . i keep read how the reconstruct vocal tract of neanderthal show that they could not have a full language , because . . . blah blah ( i really be loath to repeat the argument ) . how about the vocal tract of a parrot , reconstruct from its skeleton ? j . guy @ trl . oz . au
