Subject: innateness

i make the follow claim in my 22 - dec-94 post : " if x happen because y be innate , then this be a perfectly valid explanation for x 's occurrence ; if x happen for some other reason , then it 's not valid . " i think that this claim , be tautologous ( if we know what cause x , then we ' ve get an explanation for it ) , require no justification , but apparently i be wrong , since david power ( 13 - jan-95 ) object , on the basis that ` " innateness " amount to say " because it [ ' ] s a fact of life " . . . and say that " we be bear with it " be not an explanation . ' that be , apparently , even if we know that we are bear with y , and that x happen because of this , we still have n't explain x 's occurrence . huh ? ( grant , we may now want to explain why " we be bear with y " , too . but surely we ' ve get an explanation of some sort here , however partial it ultimately turn out be . and it 's get to be better than the relevant alternative : x happen because we learn x on the basis of " general learn principle " . ) i do think he have a legitimate objection to something , however , as discuss below . but first : perhap i can put it another way , as i have elsewhere in the context of a fuller discussion ( " on explain the phoneme : why ( some of ) phonology { \ bf be } natural " , bls 11 : 25-38 ( 1985 ) , p . 31 ) : a claim about innateness ( or lack thereof ) ` . . . should [ be ] evaluate [ d ] on the same basis [ as any other ] : do the evidence support the claim about innateness or do it not ? it would be just as wrong to claim that something that be innate be not , as to claim that something that be not innate be ' . it be true that make a claim about innatene without evidence reveal " laziness of the mind " , but so do make a claim about lack of innateness . power continue : ` . . . the science come when we show ( a ) the sufficiency ; ( b ) the necessity & ( c ) the source of the posit [ innate ] construct . ug be concentrate on ( a ) and there be a tendency to deprecate those who be interest in ( b ) and ( c ) - which go beyond the bind set by innateness . ' if ` ug ' really be out there run around make innateness claim solely on the basis of sufficiency argument ( and i do n't doubt that some folks do this , ala ) , then i can understand why innateness have get a bid name . translate into syllogism-ese , such an argument would have the follow form : " y be innate " entail x ; x be true ; therefore y be innate . logician have a name for argument of this form : " affirm the consequent " ; this be a classical logical fallacy . but , while individual practicioner may be guilty as charge , it be at least not alway the case that innateness claim be make with disregard for ( b ) : argument from " the poverty of the stimulus " , the unavailability of negative ( ungrammaticality ) evidence , and the ( allege ) lack of error by child that violate structure dependency be all clearly case in point . ( see , e . g . , chomsky 's _ reflection on language _ . ) note further that my requirement in the above quote be stronger than require just ( a ) and ( b ) : " y cause x " entail " y be necessary and sufficient for x " , but not vice versa ( e . g . , if z cause both y and x ) . and , while i agree that decide to pursue ( c ) should not be grounds for deprecation , neither should , i would think , decide not to pursue it . this elephant be too big for any one " blind man " to figure out alone ! don churma , dept . of english , ball state univeristy , muncie , in 47306
