Subject: wkshp : * early * i - e ( = ) uralic interaction

i be organize a combination colloquium and work seminar which be plan to take place in oulu finland just after the jyvaskylum 8th internat ' l fenno - ugric congress ( fu8 run thru 15 august ' 95 ) . entitle " the people ( s ) of the north , " this gather be intend to convoke roughly 30-40 scholar to discuss the archaeological , bioanthropological , ethnographic ( include comparative myth / religion / folkway etc ) , and * linguistic * datum , concept , and method as these all inter-relate and bear on the question of the development of the sundry people of scandinavium , fenno - karelium , northwest russium , and the northern circum - ural . this gather be to aid idea exchange among specialist in the domain pertinent to reconstruction of the ( pre ) historical event and process involve in the people ( s ) of this region . those in each speciality will be require to speak to their ignorance , i . e . , to come prepare to discuss * not * what they already know , but to point out what they really would * like * to know from those in the other speciality . the aim be to avoid the presentation of set-piece and to foment exploration of the many possible way in which each of the various ( pre ) historical discipline can feed from the other . my collaborator in this venture ( norbert strade , historically and archaeologically incline linguist , in aarhus dk ; milton nunez , ethnologically and geographically incline archaeologist in oulu ) and i have a long list of probable participant . however , we feel that there be a distinct under - representation as regards indo - europeanist linguistics . those i - eist of our acquaintance who be interest in pre - i - e substrate effect in northern europe , possible early i - e and f - u interaction in the north ( or elsewhere ) , and other intrigue theme of relevance to our plan , cannot make it to oulu in august . thus i be send this request . if anyone be interest , please contact me . nb - the time frame for us begin with the repopulation of the north as the last ice age retreat , hence less than 10 , 000bp . all discussion of i - e ( = ) uralic interaction and / or relation ground in posit of macro-family &c with root in ` deep time ' therefore fall outside the scope of our plan . i hope to hear from you . ken jacob voice : ( 514 ) 343-6490 [ office ] assoc . prof . ( 514 ) 685-2349 [ home ] departement d ' anthropologie fax : ( 514 ) 343-2494 universite de montreal e-mail : jacobsk @ ere . umontreal . ca cp 6128 / succ . centre - ville montreal pq h3c 3j7 canada
