Subject: ceth summer seminar on electronic text in the humanity

electronic text in the humanity : method and tool the fourth annual ceth summer seminar , 11-23 june 1995 , princeton university organize by center for electronic text in the humanity , princeton and rutger university and co-sponsor by centre for compute in the humanity , university of toronto seminar director : susan hockey , center for electronic text in the humanity willard mccarty , centre for compute in the humanity an intensive two-week seminar be again be offer by the center for electronic text in the humanity ( ceth ) in june 1995 . the seminar will address a wide range of challenge and opportunity that electronic text and software offer to teacher , scholar , and librarian in the humanities . the focus will be practical and methodological , with the immediate aim of assist participant in their teach , research and advise . in response to demand , we be expand the seminar in 1995 to allow for sixty participant . there will be plenary session and six parallel track devote to specific area of humanities compute . participant attend all plenary session and select one parallel track for more detail study . they will work on their own project and will have the opportunity to present them at the end of the seminar . schedule ( pl = plenary session ) sunday , june 11 6 pm registration , reception and introduction . monday , june 12 be pl : what electronic text be and where to find them pm pl : creat and capture text in electronic form ; tuesday , june 13 be pl : introduction to concordance and text retrieval pm pl : overview of the text encode initiative and sgml wednesday , june 14 be pl : large text database . artfl . dartmouth dante project , oed pm parallel track thursday , june 15 be pl : electronic edition and scholarly publish ( panel ) . pm parallel track friday , june 16 be pl : introduction to structure database . pm parallel track monday , june 19 be pl : hypertext for the humanities . pm parallel track tuesday , june 20 be pl : overview of digital image technique . demonstration . pm individual project work . wednesday , june 21 be pl : institutional support for electronic text ( panel ) . pm parallel track thursday , june 22 be pl : discussion on the limitation of exist software . pm pl : presentation of participant ' project . 6 pm cocktail and banquet . friday , june 23 be pl : presentation of participant ' project . pm pl : conclude discussion of basic question . what from a scholarly and methodological perspective be to be gain ? parallel track 1 . textual analysis an intensive study of textual analysis tool and their application . index interactive retrieval v batch concordance generation . using tact and micro - ocp . application : stylistic , corpus linguistics , literary criticism , instructor : susan hockey , center for electronic text in the humanity willard mccarty , centre for compute in the humanity 2 . text encode initiative ( tei ) and sgml using the tei 's application of the standard generalize markup language ( sgml ) . document structure and sgml element , dtds sgml entity , tei core tag and base tag set , tei header , additional tag set . process tei encode text . instructor : c . m . sperberg - mcqueen , editor - in - chief of the tei . 3 . scholarly edite computer tool for the preparation and publication of scholarly edition . transcription and computer image of source ; collation ; use of the tei guideline for scholarly edition ; make hypertext electronic edition instructor : peter robinson , oxford university centre for humanity compute . 4 . hypertext for the humanity an introduction to develop hypertext for the humanities . build and use hypercard stack and world wide web document . design and use of example hypertext . examination of their role in humanities research and teach . instructor : geoffrey rockwell , head of humanity compute , mcmaster univ 5 . tool for historical analysis a survey of the method most frequently use by historian in their computer-aid teach and research , focus on database and statistical process , also content analysis , corpus creation and image process . instructor : daniel greenstein , senior lecturer in modern history , glasgow univ 6 . sett up an electronic text center the practical aspect of set up and manage electronic text center . hardware and software for stand-alone and network resource , collection development , train , budget , license , and institutional relation . instructor : anita lowry , head of the information arcade , university of iowa detail date : june 11-23 , 1995 cost : $ 1275 for nonstudent . $ 1075 for student . the fee include tuition , use of computer facility , print seminar material , open reception , lunch ( monday through friday both week ) , and a close banquet . payment be request at the time of acceptance . location : princeton university , the fourth oldest college in north america , be found in 1746 . dure their stay , seminar participant have access to the university 's extensive compute system , as well as the princeton art museum and the library system which house about five million book , and nearly 35 , 0 journal , manuscript , and papyrus . all classroom , lab facility , and dormitory be within walk distance on the historic and picturesque princeton , new jersey campus . accommodation : bed and breakfast accommodation be available princeton university student house facility at a cost of $ 25 per day . ceth will assist participant in find hotel accommodation if prefer . application enrollment be limit to sixty participant . application require two part : a cover sheet and a statement of interest . current student apply for the reduce rate must also include a photocopy of their valid student id . e - mail submission must have the subject line " summer seminar application . " application will be review by a committee consist of member of ceth 's govern board . on your cover sheet include : your name , current institutional affiliation and your position , postal and e-mail address , telephone and fax number , natural language interest and compute experience , and parallel track you be interest in attend , list in order of preference . you may indicate up to three parallel track . if your first choice be full , you will be assign to your second choice and so on . in statement of interest include how your participation in the seminar would be relevant for your teach , research , advise , or administrative work , and possibly that of your colleague ; what particular project you would like to undertake during the seminar or what area of the humanities your would like most to explore ; and the extent of your compute experience . application deadline : february 21 , 1995 notification of acceptance by march 21 , 1995 send all application to : ceth summer seminar 1995 , center for electronic text in the humanity , 169 college avenue , new brunswick , new jersey 08903 u . s . a . phone : 908 / 932-1384 ; fax : 908 / 932-1386 ; e - mail ceth @ zodiac . rutger . edu [ a longer version of this notice be on the ceth www server at http : / / cethmac . princeton . edu ]
