Subject: conference announcement and call for papers

content - length : 3132 conference announcement and call for paper 11th annual meet of the language origin society july 28 - aug 1 , 1995 janus pannonius university , pec , hungary paper on all aspect of the origin and evolution of sign and speak language be welcome . since progress in this field of research be best achieve through a multidisciplinary approach , the los and the organizer of this meet be anxious to enlist the combine effort of all interest scholar , especially those of anthropologist , archaeologist , biologist , cognitive scientist , ethologist , linguist , palaeontologist , and psychologist . a selection of the papers present at this meet will be publish as soon as possible . those who wish to present a paper ( los membership be not a prerequisite ) be kindly request to send a 300 - word abstract to the organizer . computer user be ask to send their text in electronic format on 3 . 5 " diskette preferably process with wordperfect or ms - word . download electronic file be also possible ( and indeed prefer ) , though author use non - ascii character in their text be advise to send their abstract on diskette . the standard registration fee will be us $ 50 . 0 , the student us $ 25 . 0 . special arrangement have be make for lodge and some of the meal : in the venue of the los meet : the total cost for six night start july 27 plus breakfast and lunch each day will be : us $ 310 . 0 for a single us $ 215 . 0 per person for a double n . b . these price could vary slightly with the exchange rate . tentative plan be be make for a 3 - day post-conference tour . the organizer will give out the detail as they become available to them . correspondence should be address to : gabor gyorus janus pannonius university department of english ifjusag utja 6 . 7624 pec hungary phone / fax : ( internat ' l ) 36 72 314-714 e - mail : gyorig @ btk . jpte . hu the organizer ask that those who can be reach electronically kindly indicate their e-mail address in their correspondence . it be kindly request that abstract be in their possession no later than april 15 , 1995 and that hotel reservation be make also before that date , by send , along with the request , a deposit of us $ 50 . 0 or its equivalent in any other freely convertible currency . this sum should be in the form of a certified bank check payable to gabor gyorus .
