Subject: computational linguistic j

subject : time : 5 : 52 pm office memo computational linguistic job deat : 2 / 2 / 95 university of melbourne department of linguistics lecturer in computational linguistic ( three - year appointment ) . this position is being readvertised the department of linguistic be a dynamic new department with grow strength in discourse , semantics , cognitive science and speech synthesis . we wish to develop new teach and research program in computational linguistics at undergraduate and postgraduate level , and be seek a lecturer in computational linguistic , for a three year appointment begin in june / july 1995 . the position be fund by university development fund and the microsoft institute of advance software technology . subject to the success of the program in attract student and establish research in the area , it be hop to advertise a continue position in computational linguistics at the end of the three-year term . duty : you should have expertise in computational linguistic , a good background in general linguistics , and additional specialization in one or more area of nlp , such as machine translation , text generation , computational phonology or computational morphology , linguistic knowledge representation . you will contribute to the development of teach and research in computational linguistic through the teach of undergraduate and postgraduate course in the linguistic and cognitive science program , as well as some teach in general linguistics ; through supervision of postgraduate research in linguistic and in relevant part of the cognitive science program . you will pursue research in one or more of the above area , and help coordinate the linguistic contribution to the master 's in cognitive science . further information about the position , and the linguistic department , may be obtain from ms christine mckeown , administrative assistant , department of linguistic , university of melbourne , parkville 3052 , australium . tel . : 3 344 5488 ; fax 3 344 4980 ; email christine _ mckeown @ muwayf . unimelb . edu . au . application ( include the name and facsimile number of three referee ) should be send to the director , personnel service , the university of melbourne , parkville , victorium , 3052 ; fax ( 3 ) 344 4694 , or email to christine _ mckeown @ muwayf . unimelb . edu . au . application close march 20th , 1995 . salary range : a $ 41 , 574 to $ 49 , 370 accord to experience and qualification . the university of melbourne be an equal opportunity employer and have a smoke-free workplace policy .
