Subject: tilburg conference on ot

call for paper tilburg university conference on the derivational residue in phonology 1 - 7 october 1995 the grammatical model group of tilburg university plan to organize a conference on the derivational residue in phonology . in this conference we hope to discuss all topic which be deal with in standard generative phonology by derivational means such as level order , ( strict ) cyclicity and rule order , in the light of the recent shift of attention toward theory that be more representational in nature . can all the derivational tool mention be replace by representational instrument ? if they can , what should the ` optimal ' representational theory look like ? if they cannot , what exactly be the residue of derivationalism that we still need ? we invite all papers with these or relate topic ( a more complete description of the conference topic can be find below ) both for and against purely representational approach to phonology . we expect to be able to ( partially ) reimburse travel expense and lodge for our speaker . furthermore we be proud that bruce haye and geert booij have already agree to be our invite speaker . deadline those interest in present a paper ( 40 minute talk , 15 minute discussion ) should send 5 copy of a two page abstract ( 10 anonymous ; 1 camera-ready , with name ( s ) , affiliation ( s ) and contact address , include e-mail ) to : marc van oostendorp or ben herman , grammaticamodellen , tilburg university , postbus 90153 , 5000 le , tilburg , the netherland . abstract must be receive by 1 may 1995 . abstract with page text consider too condense to be read will be reject without review . no email submission accept . for additional information contact b . j . h . herman @ kub . nl or m . voostendorp @ kub . nl . topic of the conference dure the past few year the main focus of attention in phonology seem to have be shift from derivational to representational model , such as prince and smolensky 's optimality theory , goldsmith 's harmonic phonology and burzio 's pes - model . yet generative phonologist have accumulate substantial evidence for derivational analysis . in standard lexical phonology , for instance , derivationalism play a role in several way : the model be divide into a lexical and a postlexical component , the lexical component itself be divide into several lexical level , some lexical level be cyclic and every affix start its own cycle and , finally , the phonological rule within every cycle be order . the question be how we have to evaluate all these derivational instrument in a representational theory of phonology . the distinction between lexical and postlexical phonology seem to be least controversial . most optimality theory analysis seem to accept at least this remnant of derivationalism . yet one could imagine a more radical version of a purely representational theory in which the distinction between word-level and phrasal phonology be account for in an appropriate theory of phonological domain . in any case , the question remains as to how we have to evaluate the traditional criterion for lexical-postlexical distinction ( exception , sensitivity to morphological and syntactic boundary , etc . ) in a theory of constraint and constraint rank . similar question could be ask about the internal level order within the lexical component . can all analysis which use to be frame in term of lexical level be reframe in representational term ? and to what extent can a theory which make extensive use of lexical level still be call ` representational ' ? most discussion on derivationalism within optimality theory seem to have be concentrate on the issue of cyclicity . it have be demonstrate that some cyclic analysis can be replace by an adequate theory of alignment between phonological and morphological structure . is this everything that need to be say about this issue ? are , for instance , cyclic version of ot feasible and desirable ? similarily , considerable effort have be put by several researcher into show that strict cyclicity as a theoretical concept be superfluous or that it can be replace by a theory of underspecification . whether this be an adequate answer to all derive environment effect be another topic we hope to address . finally , we expect that even at the finest grain level of derivationalism , viz . phonological rule order ( both intrinsic and extrinsic ) interest question remain unanswer . in particular all case of what use to be know as counter-feed and counter-bleed relation seem to us still to be open for discussion . all of these question have considerable conceptual import , yet it seem to us that they can ultimately be answer empirically . the issue of derivationalism be one of the interest challenge that optimality theory and the other model mention earlier pose . we hope to receive many abstract deal with it .
