Subject: call for abstract : optimality in syntactic theory

content - length : 4437 call for papers is the best good enough ? workshop on optimality in syntactic theory to be hold at the massachusett institute of technology , cambridge , ma , may 19-21 1995 . syntactic research in a variety of framework be assign a grow role to the notion of comparison . this work , which be at the forefront of current research , include theory involve principle of economy and optimality . much of this work be still unpublish or in formative stage ( legendre , raymond , and smolensky ( 1993 ) , grimshaw ( 1993 ) , pesetsky ( 1994 ) , chomsky ( 1989 , 1993 , 1994 ) ) . the relevant datum vary from one account to another , but empirical comparison of these proposal now can and should be undertake . ) from may 19-21 , 1995 , mit will be host a workshop to explore and clarify particular issue of syntactic theory in which comparison play a significant role . the workshop will consist of invite talk and talk select from anonymously submit abstract . abstract be invite to address the follow question : * what be the nature of the candidate or reference set for comparison ? which linguistic object compete for the best choice ? * what criterion determine the optimal output from a set of candidate ? * doe the grammar compare derivation ( as with the economy principle of chomsky ( 1989 , 1993 ) ) or representation ( as in the optimality theoretic analysis develop for phonology by prince and smolensky ( 1993 ) ) . * is language acquisition or variation explain by parameterization or constraint re-rank ? * what be the computational implication and requirement of the different approach ? invite talk will be present by : joan bresnan , stanford noam chomsky , mit jane grimshaw , rutger david pesetsky , mit paul smolensky and geraldine legendre , john hopkin university edward stabler , ucla submission for consideration must be receive by march 15 , 1994 , vium mail or fax transmission . author whose abstract be accept will be request to provide a more complete paper by mid - april to prepare focus discussion . we may be able to assist with travel cost for student or unemploy presenter . eight or nine 30 - minute time slot be reserve for accept papers , each with an additional 10 minute for question and discussion . abstract should be anonymous and not longer than two page . mail address : good enough mit 20d-219 77 massachusett avenue , cambridge , ma , 02139 mailing should include six copy of an anonymous abstract with a cover sheet indicate the paper title , author 's name , affiliation , address , phone number , and email address . fax transmission may be make to ( 617 ) 253-5017 , attention : david pesetsky , and should also include the cover sheet . any further question may be address by email to good-enough @ mit . edu . more detail conference information will also be make available vium anonymous ftp to broca . mit . edu , in the pub / good-enough directory . reference cite above : chomsky , n . ( 1989 ) , " some note on economy of derivation and representation . " in laka , i . and a . mahajan ( ed . ) _ mit work paper in linguistic 10 , cambridge : mit work paper in linguistic . chomsky , n . ( 1993 ) , " a minimalist program for linguistic theory , " in hale , k . and j . keyser ( ed . ) _ a view from build 20 _ , cambridge : mit press . chomsky , n . ( 1994 ) , " bbe phrase structure , " occasional paper # 5 , cambridge : mit work paper in linguistic . grimshaw , j . ( 1993 ) , " minimal projection , head , and optimality , " m . rutger university [ available by anonymous ftp from rucc . rutger . edu , as pub / ot / papers / minproj . p ] , to appear in linguistic inquiry . legendre , g . , w . raymond , and p . smolensky ( 1993 ) " an optimality - theoretic typology of case and grammatical voice system , " _ proceeding of the nineteenth annual meet of the berkeley linguistic society _ , berkeley , ca , 464-478 . pesetsky , d . ( in prep . ) , _ syntax at the edge : optimality effect in sentence grammar _ [ handout only available by anonymous ftp from rucc . rutger . edu , as pub / ot / papers / sentpron . p ] . prince , a . and p . smolensky ( 1993 ) , _ optimality theory : constraint interaction in generative grammar _ , ruccs technical report # 2 , rutger university center for cognitive science , piscataway , new jersey [ to appear , mit press ] .
