Subject: braille ipa

at the end of 1994 , i send out a request for information on a braille ipa . a number of people respond . i will begin by thank them here ( in order of receipt of their message ) : richard ogden sebastian adorjan dyhr martin lange david hathaway robert hoberman patrick griffith robert englebretson one source be the royal national institute for the blind in england for which i be give two address : stephen phippen , chief editor braille transcription royal national institute for the blind po box 173 peterborough , england pe2 6ws telephone : 229 9835 and royal national institute for the blind 224 , great portland street mount pleasant london great britain in addition , patrick griffith write : ) alan kemp ( who have recently retire from the linguistic department at ) edinburgh university ) supply me with computer version of a braille ) phonetics system that he and bob ladd have devise for a student there a ) few year ago . i imagine that write to or email dr d robert ladd , ) linguistic department , edinburgh university , 40 george square , edinburgh ) eh8 9ll , scotland , uk , would be a way of pursue this lead . finally , robert englebretson , a grad student in linguistic at the university of californium at santa barbara provide a very detail message . he be himself blind and have use some form of transcription . among other thing , he write : ) the basic source of information on the braille ipa system be the standard ) " code of braille textbook format and technique , 1977 " rule xix , section 45 , ) which give a complete list of ipa and other commonly-use diacritic and ) symbol , and discuss rule for braille transcription of linguistics ) material in general . ( the basic symbol list in this work , with some ) addition and change , be from " a braille notation of the international ) phonetic alphabet " , by w . percy merrick and w . potthoff , royal national ) institute for the blind , london , 1932 ; revise 1948 ) . the relevant section ) from " code of braille textbook format . . . " give a good overview of each ) braille symbol and how it be use , and describe the print symbol it ) represent . the verbal description of the print symbol be extremely ) useful , since they can provide a means of communicate about a particular ) symbol without have to see it visually . i have a copy of this section in ) both print and braille , and have find both very useful . i can provide ) information about where to get both a braille and a print copy of this ) section , if you be interest . ) a second work i have find useful , be compile by a braille transcriber ) ( unfortunately now decease ) who have a great interest in linguistics . it be ) entitle " phonetic - phonemic symbol in tactile representation " , and be a list ) of raise tactile drawing of print symbol , with their braille equivalent . ) this be a very useful work for a blind student to get a " feel " for the print ) symbol and also as a reference to the braille symbol . the braille edition ) of this booklet cost about $ 3 , and i will be happy to provide contact and ) order information upon request . ) i would very much like to get in touch with other people who know ) and / or use the ipa braille system ( both to possibly find braille ) transcriber who know it , as well as to " network " with other who ) either use braille or be interest in it . hbe email address be : 6500reng @ ucsbuxa . ucsb . edu
