Subject: essllus

seventh european summer school in logic language and information barcelona , august 14-25 1995 for more information contact : esslli95 gilcub avda . vallvidrera 25 08017 barcelona fax + 43 3 2054656 tlf + 43 3 2033597 e - mail esslli95 @ gilcub . e general information the summer school the seventh european summer school in logic , language and information will be hold at the biology faculty of barcelona university from august 14th to 25th . the school be organize under the auspices of the european foundation of logic , language and information ( follus ) , jointly by universitat de barcelona , universitat rovira i virgilus , universitat autonoma de barcelona , and universitat politecnica de catalunya . the previous summer school take place at rijk universiteit groningen in the netherland in1989 , at the katholieke universiteit leuven in belgium in 1990 , at the universitat saarland , saarbrucken in germany in 1991 , at the university of essex colchester in the unite kingdomin 1992 , at the faculdade de letra da universidade de lisboa in portugal in 1993 , and at the copenhagen business school in denmark in 1994 . for these school financial support be derive from a variety of source , include the commision of the european community , through the erasmus programme and the dg xiii , research network , national research council , and industrial sponsor . the same kind of support be expect for the 1995 school . the main focus of the summer school be the interface between logic , linguistics and computation , where it concern the model of human linguistic and cognitive ability . the 1995 school programme will include course , workshop , and symposium cover a variety of topic within six area of interest : logic , language , computation , logic and computation , computation and language , language and logic . course will be cast at both introductory and advance level . introductory course be design to familiarize student with new field and do not presuppose any background knowledge , while advance course be design to allow participant to acquire more specialize expertise in area they be already familiar with . workshop will be chair by an expert in ther field and will provide an opportunity for phd student and other young researcher to present their work and gain inform feedback and useful contact . symposium will typically consist of a series of presentation on a timely topic by people active in the relevant area . both workshop and symposium be intend to encourage collaboration and cross fertilization of idea by stimulatingin-depth discussion of issue which be at the forefront of current research in the field . there will also be a series of invite even lecturer by well-known expert in their field . accomodation there will be accomodation available . more information will appear in follow anouncement . course programme section : logic and language algebraic semantic for natural language name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : godehard link affiliation ( s ) : institut fur philosophie , logik und wissenschaftstheorie ( iplw ) universitat munchen e - mail : glink @ ci . uni-muenchen . de type : introductory formal foray into language name of lecturer : jan van eijck and jan jaspar affiliation ( s ) : cwi , amsterdam and ots , utrecht e - mail : jve @ cwus . nl / jaspar @ cwus . nl type : introductory the dynamic of structure name of lecturer ( s ) : c . vermeulen , a . visser affiliation ( s ) : department of philosophy e - mail : albert . visser @ phil . ruu . nl , kee . vermeulen @ phil . ruu . nl type : advance nearness and syntactic influence sphere name of lecturer : marcus kracht affiliation : department of mathematic , fu berlin e - mail : kracht @ math . fu-berlin . de type : advance feature logic and infinitary description name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : bill keller affiliation ( s ) : school of cognitive and compute science , university of sussex e - mail : billk @ cog . susx . ac . uk type : advance a mathematical theory of language learnability name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : dick de jongh and makoto kanazawa affiliation ( s ) : department of mathematic and computer science , university of amsterdam department of cognitive and information science , faculty of letter , chiba university e - mail : dickdj @ fwus . uva . nl and kanazawa @ cogscus . l . chiba-u . ac . jp type : advance complex part structure and natural language name of lecturer : friederike moltman affiliation : dept of philosophy , city university of new york ( cuny ) e - mail : isagc @ cunyvm . bitnet type : advance property and type name of organizer : chri fox affiliation : department of computer science university of essex e - mail : foxcj @ essex . ac . uk type : workshop formal epistemology name of organizer : han rott affiliation ( s ) : university of konstanz e - mail : pirott @ nyx . uni-konstanz . de type : workshop underspecification in computational semantics name of organizer : robin cooper and massimo poesio ( fracas ) affiliation ( s ) : university of edinburgh e - mail : { cooper , poesio } @ cogscus . ed . ac . uk type : symposium section : logic introduction to modal logic name of lecturer : ramon jansana affiliation : department of logic , history and philosophy of science , universitat de barcelona , spain . e - mail : jansana @ cerber . ub . e type : introductory temporal logic name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : ian hodkinson affiliation ( s ) : imperial college london e - mail : imh @ doc . ic . ac . uk type : advance descriptive complexity theory name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : flum , joerg affiliation ( s ) : mathematisch institut , universitaet freiburg , e - mail : flum @ sun1 . ruf . uni-freiburg . de type : advance algebraization of sentential logic name of lecturer : josep maria font affiliation : faculty of mathematic , university of barcelona e - mail : font @ cerber . mat . ub . e type : advance some new trend in algebraic logic name of organizer : josep maria font affiliation : faculty of mathematic , university of barcelona e - mail : font @ cerber . mat . ub . e type : workshop advance modal logic name of lecturer : patrick blackburn , maarten de rijke and y de venema . affiliation : patrick blackburn , ( universitat de saarland , saarbrucken ) , maarten de rijke ( cwi , amsterdam ) , and yde venema ( vrije universiteit , amsterdam ) . e - mail : patrick @ coli . uni-sb . de , maarten . de . rijke @ cwus . nl and yde @ c . vu . nl type : advance situation theory with application name of organizer : keith devlin affiliation : saint mary 's college of californium , moraga , and csli , stanford . e - mail : devlin @ stmarys-ca . edu type : symposium section : computation and logic logical framework name : d . basin , s . mathew ( saarbruecken ) e - mail : basin @ mpi-sb . mpg . de and sean @ mpi-sb . mpg . de type : introductory knowledge representation and logic name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : franz baader affiliation ( s ) : lufg theoretische informatik rwth aachen e - mail : baader @ informatik . rwth-aachen . de type : introductory deductive database name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : gerhard koestler affiliation ( s ) : universitaet augsburg e - mail : koestler @ uni-augsburg . de type : introductory program with temporal logic name : howard barringer and dov gabbay affiliation ( s ) : the university of manchester imperial college of science , technology and medicine e - mail : howard @ man . c . ac . uk and dg @ doc . ic . ac . uk type : advance power structure and program semantic name of lecturer : chri brink . affiliation : mathematic department , university of cape town . email : cbrink @ math . uct . ac . za . type : advance . automate deduction in non - classical logic name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : lincoln a . wallen affiliation ( s ) : oxford university e - mail : lincoln . wallen @ comlab . ox . ac . uk type : advance how to tame you logic ? maarten marx : university of amsterdam e - mail : marx @ ccsom . uva . nl szabolc mikula logic graduate school e - mail : mikula @ fwus . uva . nl e - mail : h3762mik @ ellum . hu type : advance expressive nonmonotonic reason ( nmr ) name : franz baader affiliation ( s ) : lufg theoretische informatik , rwth aachen e - mail : baader @ informatik . rwth-aachen . de name : karl schlechta affiliation ( s ) : laboratoire d ' informatique de marseille , ura cnrs 178 universite de provence . e - mail : k @ gypti . univ-mr . fr type : workshop logical formalism for plan , plan recognition , and plan modification dr . susanne biundo german research center for artificial intelligence email : biundo @ dfkus . uni-sb . de type : workshop method for construct and manipulate logical system prof . dov m gabbay imperial college of science , technology and medicine email : dg @ doc . ic . ac . uk subject logic engineer : label deductive system , and computer support for study logic type : symposium section : computation partial evaluation name of lecturer ( s ) : neil jone affiliation ( s ) : diku , university of copenhagen e - mail : neil @ diku . dk type : introductory interactive development of proof and program name of lecturer ( s ) : christine paulin - mohr affiliation ( s ) : lip-cnrs ura 1398 - ecole normale superieure de lyon e - mail : christine . paulin @ lip . ens-lyon . fr type : advance implementation of functional program language name of lecturer ( s ) : simon peyton jone affiliation ( s ) : department of compute science , university of glasgow e - mail : simonpj @ dc . glum . ac . uk type : advance section : language and computation formalize and implement syntactic theory name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : edward stabler and mark johnson affiliation ( s ) : edward stabler , ucla and mark johnson , brown university e - mail : stabler @ cognet . uclum . edu and mj @ c . brown . edu type : introductory corpus - base model of language process name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : ren bod and remko scha affiliation ( s ) : university of amsterdam institute for logic , language and computation department of computational linguistic e - mail : ren @ alf . let . uva . nl scha @ alf . let . uva . nl type : introductory automate deduction for logic of linguistic resource name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : michael moortgat affiliation ( s ) : research institute for language and speech ( ots ) e - mail : moortgat @ let . ruu . nl type : advance topic in lexical - functional grammar name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : ronald kaplan and mary dalrymple affiliation ( s ) : xerox parc e - mail : kaplan @ parc . xerox . com ; dalrymple @ parc . xerox . com type : advance categorial syntax and semantic name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : bob carpenter * and glyn morrill * * affiliation ( s ) : philosophy department , carnegie mellon university * department of computer system and language , polytechnic university of catalunya * * e - mail : carp @ lcl . cmu . edu * and morrill @ lsus . upc . e * * type : advance lambek calculus and linear logic name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : v . michele abrusci affiliation ( s ) : universitat dus roma la sapienza dipartimento dus studus filosoficus ed epistemologicus e - mail : abruscus @ scus . uniroma1 . it type : advance natural language generation name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : robert dale affiliation ( s ) : microsoft institute of advance software technology e - mail : rdale @ microsoft . com type : advance formal and computational phonology name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : t . mark ellison affiliation ( s ) : university of edinburgh ( till january , then inesc , lisbon ) e - mail : marke @ cogscus . ed . ac . uk type : workshop the computational lexicon name organizer : m . felisa verdejo affiliation ( s ) : universidad nacional educacion a distancium e - mail : felisa @ horacio . dieec . une . e type : workshop proof theory , label deduction and natural language name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : professor ruth kempson affiliation ( s ) : school of oriental & african study , university of london e - mail : kempson @ clus1 . ulcc . ac . uk type : symposium section : language head - drive phrase structure grammar name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : philip h . miller affiliation ( s ) : universite ' de lille 3 e - mail : pmiller @ ulb . ac . be type : introductory phrase structure typology and lfg name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : joan bresnan affiliation ( s ) : stanford university e - mail : bresnan @ cslus . stanford . edu type : advance aspectuality and event structure name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : henk verkuyl affiliation ( s ) : utrecht university ots e - mail : verkuyl @ let . ruu . nl type : introductory the acquisition of syntax and morphology name of lecturer : harald clahsen affiliation : department of language and linguistic , university of essex e - mail : harald @ essex . ac . uk type : advance prosody , information , and grammatical architecture name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : dick oehrle affiliation ( s ) : department of linguistic , university of arizona e - mail : oehrle @ convx1 . ccit . arizona . edu type : advance constraint base formalism and grammar write name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : jochen doerre and suresh manandhar affiliation ( s ) : university of stuttgart and university of edinburgh e - mail : suresh . manandhar @ ed . ac . uk jochen . doerre @ im . uni-stuttgart . de type : workshop argument structure and link theory name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : annie zaenen ( * ) and louisa sadler ( * * ) affiliation ( s ) : ( * ) rank xerox research centre and ( * * ) university of essex e - mail : ( * ) annie . zaenen @ xerox . fr and ( * * ) louisa @ essex . ac . uk type : symposium
