Subject: lg & species

the language & species discussion have not recur this week , but i have already prepare the follow , which i think would be of general enough interest to the recurrent misunderstanding about innateness and human language to publish on the list . since my last post on the language & species discussion i have receive some interest comment and check on the reference that i have in mind ( since i own a copy ) . the reference be a volume call " speak of ape : a critical anthology of two - way communication with man " . ed . t . a . sebeok & jean umiker - sebeok . ny : plenum press , 1980 . in it be chomsky 's article : " human language and other semiotic system . " pp . 429-40 . chomsky 's article be pretty much as i remember it , but with a great many other observation on the nature of human language , characteristic of his concept of human language , which contrast / s with what the animal psychologist of the time have teach ape ( and perhap even think of teach them ) , e . g . , potentially infinite embed of phrase within other phrase . beyond that , he challenge the notion that human language be ( merely / primarily ) a system for ( social ) communication , which serve his notion of the inappropriateness of compare human language with animal system of communication for draw conclusion about the evolution of human language ( and may also imply that it be a strictly human device for interpret external stimulus and " think " ) . incidentally , my reread of the article change my earlier impression that chomsky lack " grace " in not explicitly acknowledge the accomplishment and discovery of animal psychologist , to a perception that such explicitness would be irrelevant and distract to the point he want to make . of course he could n't help activate involuntary visceral hostility in some researcher when he accuse them of lack of logic in their argument , but that be another matter . most interest be his final position that regardless of what ape may prove capable of learn , he see evidence for a qualitative distinction between the human and ape natural intellectual endowment in the fact that human acquire most ( syntactic ) property of language without ( even the possibility of ) explicit teach , while ape obviously do not , despite the " evolutionary advantage " ( c 's phrase ) that it would bestow on them . i particularly like the last sentence of the follow passage : " now it be difficult to imagine that child learn english receive specific instruction about these matter , or even that they be provide with relevant experience . in fact , we find that while child make many error in language learn , they never make such mistake as these : they never assume , until correct , that " the candidate want me to vote for each other " means that each candidate want me to vote for the other . in fact , relevant experience be never present for most speaker of english , * just as no pedagogic grammar would ever point out these fact . * " p . 432 to tell the truth , i do n't get the error in the example ( maybe because i ' ve never be correct ? ) , but i get the point . it 's the point about anaphoric reference that i mention in the last post ( though i think the passage be try to rely on some point about syntactic embed of anaphora of the type common at the time among generativist , cf . the parallel reflexive " the candidate want me to vote for ? him - / herself [ unstress ] " ) . in any case , one may argue ( i would not ) that there be an anthropocentric bias inherent in chomsky 's perspective on the " evolutionary advantage " of human language - - i would suppose stem from what i think be the evolutionary tenet that whatever promote indefinite increase of the population of a species be an evolutionary advantage , since that be suppose to maximise the chance that at least some of the member of the species will survive to continue the reproduction of the species . i guess an objection may be that in some sense ape " know " something that we do n't know that make them shy away from retain or develop something like human language , e . g . , that the technological advance allow by human social organization and motivation facilitate by language will eventually lead to our extinction , a notion that would probably have evoke more rhetorical sympathy in the mid 1980 when fear of nuclear holocaust peak ( or more persistently but less clearly the malthusian notion that uncontrol human population increase put dangerous pressure on the ecological support system ) . i doubt such an objection have any chance of be take seriously ( in the form just give at least ) by the scientific spirit . imagine the unimaginable that some human society ( any human society ) come to this conclusion and reject human language as ultimately threaten to the species . even so , i would guess that the innateness hypothesis would predict that human would still not be able to " help " learn and manifest language ( manifest - - ) learn by future generation ) , and if that would contribute to eventual extinction , too bid . nothe in evolutionary theory prevent " defective " aberration from arise . the species with them would simply arise and then disappear ( relatively quickly ? ) . however , i ' m sure human be constitutionally incapable of see the human language faculty as such an injurious aberration - - i can't . at worst i can only see it as a possible means of salvation from the jeopardy that some of our more sinister instinct may have place us in . forgive me for even invent what i consider an idle and repulsive speculation - - but i think it throw in relief what may be infer in assess chomsky 's ultimate argument as i understand it . the simple summation of chomsky 's argument be : if ape be capable of learn " human " language , why do n't they ( do it naturally - - like people do ) ? probably more interest and arguable to the list discussion be chomsky 's point of distinguish " human language " and " language " . chomsky see human language as a subject for scientific inquiry with property which be quite specific , include the syntactic property of reference , embed , etc . that we be all familiar with as current linguist . in contrast , my understand of the article be that he see " language " as a non-scientific concept , something vague and not even promise as a potential scientific field of inquiry . in this vein , he concede that ape and many other animal may - - in fact , he do not doubt - - make use of symbolic system ( semiotic system ) apparently comparable in principle to the lexical component of language in some way , though less extensive , and , if i understand , less discrete ( in the linguistic sense of " discrete " ) . and he suppose that such symbolic system in other animal may be relate to share intellectual capacity of human and these other animal , but that with human they interact with distinctive linguistic capacity ( among the latter i suppose the way lexicon fill in more abstract linguistic category in grammatical derivation ) . in an illustrative passage ( p . 437 ) he object to the gardner ' characterisation of teach ape to use ameslan lexical sign as teach them ameslan as a ( human ) language . by the way , he consider acquisition of the sign for " and " as trivial , with respect to comparison with human language . i do n't suppose that that be mean to detract from recognition of the ape ' ability to grasp this " logical operation " ( by human definition ) - - but that such recognition be irrelevant to an appreciation of what be distinctive about human language ( well , at least we now know that the " logical " concept " and " be not distinctive to human - - the concept " plural " , then , probably be n't either - - more problematic be the concept " dual " as far as i know - - have ape be teach to count ? hey ! last time i look i have three identical rubber duck , now i only have two ! ) . in sum , then , chomsky have a very specific and single-mind notion of human language which allow him to immediately " see through " claim about animal manifestation of " language " , just as it have earlier allow him to criticise ( and condemn ) skinner 's notion about the " nature " of human language . i think the usual difficulty in see his point be not so much in the persistence of linguistic debate about whether and to what extent " autonomous syntax " be a valid notion ( let 's not get into that here ) , but in the intuitive notion among linguist , as well as everybody else , that lexicon be a major " part " of " human language " . it be certainly not the part that chomsky associate with the distinctive innate human faculty of language . rather , the innate faculty be somewhere in the system which organise combination of sign , that " somewhere " be crucial to whether or not there be an evolutionary discontinuity between human language and animal potential for " language " . of course , another source of resistance to the idea of an innate human language faculty be a generalise sneak suspicion that anything that propose to set human apart from other animal in a fundamental way be self-delude anthropocentric self - aggrandise propaganda , cf . the discredit ( i think ) argument against the heliocentric theory of the solar system that human be the " center " of creation and therefore their location must be at the pivot of the material universe . while sneak suspicion be certainly appropriate issue to bring up for something as informal as the ling . list discussion , it be not clear to me how it fit in to more formal scientific argument . misguide as a source of resistance would be the idea float in the kant / innate discussion that a theory that something be " innate " be a killer to further attempt at " explanation " . the killer to explanation be the " just " in " that 's just the way thing be " . on the contrary , take out the " just " and there would be nothing to explain if there be no " that 's the way thing be " . if we get confuse about this , it 's because , as scientist we don ' t know how thing be , and our " explanation " be hypothesis to test if thing be the way we think they be . i forget what the context of kant 's discussion of " explanation " be , but in the context of " pure " reason it would have to be the " just " . in " practical " reason i suppose whatever aid remember the " fact " be sufficient " explanation " . finally , a message from massimo piattellus - palmarinus , director of the dept of cognitive science at the istituto san raffaele in milan , alert me that among the discussion of comparison between human and ape cognition relevant to language capacity , " the truly definitive piece be by mark seidenberg and laura petitto in cognition , vol 7 , 1979 , pp . 177-215 . " although this article be publish before the volume i refer to above , it be too recent for most of the papers publish in that volume to fully discuss , so that there be only glance reference to it in some of the papers . i still have n't read it yet , not that i ' ve even read most of the article in the sebeok volume . incidentally , massimo remind me that ape be indeed find to be able to recognise their reflection in mirror , monkey not ( and i think i read that in roger fout 's popular book about teach ape to communicate with human which come out in the late 70 ) . from what i gather , animal psychologist etc . be not ( or no longer ) hostile to the idea of a discontinuity between human language and what animal be capable of , but remain ( why not ? ) interest in discover of what animal be capable of , and what that may suggest about human evolution . benjus
