Subject: 

phonology & phonetics leiden in last : hil phonology paper i ( hil publication 1 ) . edite by harry van der hulst & jeroen van de weijer . the hague : holland academic graphic . pb . isbn 90-5569 - 008 - 2 . 431pp . jan 1995 . dfl 60 ( incl . p&p , excl . 6 % vat ) . e - mail : 72113 . 335 @ compuserve . com a collection of sixteen article present at the first hil phonology conference hold in leiden in january 1993 . cover a wide variety of topic in segmental and metrical phonology . with an introductory text , present the most important theoretical development in phonology of the last decade . contributor : harry van der hulst & jeroen van de weijer , outus bat - el , cynthium brown , mike davenport , daniel dor , j | rgen geilmann , janet grijzenhout , tracy hall , karijn helsloot , harry van der hulst & aone van engelenhoven , ren / e kager , blanca palmada , glyne piggott , krisztina polga / rdus , wendy sandler , elan dresher & harry van der hulst . new publication : the handbook of phonological theory , edit by john a . goldsmith ( university of chicago ) . 1995 . publish by basil blackwell , oxford and cambridge ma . 32 chapter from 37 author survey the field of contemporary phonological theory . 992 page . price be $ 79 . 95 ( hardcover ) in north america , and 70 pound sterl elsewhere . blackwell 's email address for inspection copy be blkwell @ world . std . com in the us , and inspcopy @ cix . compulink . co . uk in the uk . pragmatics rudanko , juhanus . 1993 . pragmatic approach to shakespeare . essay on othello , coriolanus and timon of athen . lanham , new york and london : the university press of america . the book explore and develop method of linguistic pragmatic that can , it be suggest , be apply to the study of dramatic dialogue in three shakespearean tragedy . as far as othello be concern , the method apply include topic analysis and case grammar analysis , the latter apply to soliloquy ; in the case of coriolanus there be a focus on speech act analysis , and as for timon of athen , it be propose that politeness theory shed light on theme of the play . it be argue that the practical application of method of linguistic pragmatic contribute to a better understand of the three play as dramatic work of art and also lead to the further refinement of the method themselve as tool of analysis . east asian langs koizumus , m . and ura , h . ( ed . ) formal approaches to japanese linguistics 1 : proceedings of the may 1994 mit conference mit work paper in linguistic # 24 1994 411 pp . syntax $ 15 + p / h ( $ 2 in us , else $ 3 ) . distribute by mitwpl , 20d-219 mit , cambridge ma 02139 ( mitwpl @ mit . edu ) paper by t . aikawa ; h . aoyagus ; c . brockett ; s . dubinsky ; y . endo ; y . kato ; r . kawashima ; a . kikuchus , m . oishus , & n . yusa ; n . kimura ; h . kitahara ; m . koizumus ; a . nakamura ; m . nakayama ; m . saito ; h . sakaus ; k . - w . sohn ; n . tsujimura ; h . ura ; j . vendittus & h . yamashita ; s . watanabe .
