Subject: efl position

the follow position be available through the unite state information agency : efl fellows english language teacher education program eastern / central europe , russium , ukraine who ? experience efl / esl teacher trainer / educator and teacher of english for specific purpose , hold at least a master of art degree in the field where ? albanium , croatium , the czech republic , hungary , kazakhstan , latvium , lithuanium , macedonium , poland , romanium , russium , slovakium , slovenium , ukraine when ? leat august , 1995 through late july , 1996 what ? efl fellow undertake a range of project aim at enhance the quality of english language education throughout the region . some of their accomplishment since 1991 include : - organize successful seminar to develop master teacher in slovenium ; - facilitate the organization of a nation-wide tesol affiliate in russium ; - organize local teacher to develop efl material for use in elementary and secondary school classroom throughout latvium ; - sponsor a variety of course and lecture for in-service teacher at america house in kiev , ukraine , as feature on the front page of a major ukrainian daily ; - help to develop and deliver model train program for teacher in requalification program in lithuanium ; - assist in the establishment of a nationwide assessment program for test the language skill of teacher enter requalification program in estonium . the efl fellow program be sponsor and administer by the u . s . information agency ( usia ) . for further detail and application form , write , fax , or e-mail the appropriate address below , or visit the usia booth in the employment clearinghouse at the tesol long beach conference center . for information concern briefing on the efl fellow program at the convention , see the convention daily . the require interview may take place by appointment at usia in washington dc , through a prearrange teleconference with usia , or march 29 , 30 , 31 and the morn of april 1 at the employment clearinghouse at tesol . efl fellow program e-mail : fellow @ usium . gov applicant information fax : 202 / 401-1250 e / alp , room 304 phone : 202 / 401-6016 301 - 4th street , s . w . washington , dc 20547
