Subject: ipa , austerlitz

i learn phonetics and phonetic field technique from robert austerlitz ( 1923-1994 ) . after read joseph stemberger 's comment on ipa and democratize the process of standarize phonetic write ( in linguist 6 . 185 ) , i think about how austerlitz teach . austerlitz never ask us to memorize ipa or any other system . instead , he teach us several different system of notation all at once . he expect us to be able to describe sound by place of articulation , manner of articulation , and so on . we be expect to + know + ipa , of course , and he refer us to several different source , each of which have a slightly different version of it . but there be no standard system in his classroom . he be a remarkable teacher and make me a fieldworker . he use a number of symbol that be rarely see anywhere else . one of his favorite be the cardinal vowel " 61 " , by which ( if i remember correctly ) he mean the high back unround vowel write " turn m " in ipa . this " 61 " be merely the letter " uy " from the cyrillic alphabet . in his field-technique class , we be encourage to make up new symbol to describe what we hear . i remember , during a session with a speaker from shanqha , he express the greatest pleasure when joseph davi write the initial consonant of ' cook rice ' with a digraph make up of a " v " with a lowercase " f " plant between its arm . this express graphically the unusual shanqha sound that davi have describe - it be clearly a labiodental fricative , but somehow sound both voice and voiceless at the same time . austerlitz first mention that " they " in the ipa would say that diacritic could be use to express this , then recount chao 's claim that many chinese dialect have initial consonant that be in-between voice and voiceless , and go on to discuss way that he and other have think of to write this . actually , though , the use of those ipa voice / voiceless or breathy voice diacritic may not be quite right . the " voice " initial in shanqha lower register word be neither contrastively voice nor contrastively unvoice ; the apparent " breathy semi-voice " seem actually to be feature of the + tone + , not the initial . some speaker pronounce it with the initial , some before the initial , some afterward , some all the way through the syllable , and some not at all . davi ' symbol be a good idea at the time , though , because it express this lack of contrast vividly . i have meet quite a number of linguist who have complaint about ipa or about the variety of system in use , but these people hardly ever seem to be fieldworker . i do n't believe i know any two fieldworker who use phonetic symbol quite the same way , and most of them do n't seem to care at all . everyone seem to have different preference ; well , so what ? some people , for instance , can't abide to write the " h " for aspiration + above + the line , and write it seemingly as a full segment . other leave the " h " out altogether , say that ( in english , for instance ) it need not be write explicitly . the chinese tend to write aspiration with the reverse apostrophe of greek , probably continue the tradition of older system of romanization . the chinese , in fact , have a whole class of vowel - frictionless sibilant - that have n't make their way into ipa , as well as a special set of alveolo-palatal consonant . are these really necessary ? maybe not , but the chinese be not go to give them up ; be sure of that . for my part , i dislike plain schwa - i prefer to use the four schwa-area vowel ( close-mid and open-mid , round and unround ) that ipa now recognize , and even before they become official i be use some of their current symbol , although i sometime use special diacritic with schwa , too . these vowel be important in some of the area where i work , in rural fwujiann . but every chinese dialectologist i know use schwa like mad , and for a number of vowel that i consider quite distinct . we understand each other , though . fieldworker be basically explorer . for the most part we do not go into the field to codify the know , but search for the unknown . we play with our symbol , try different way of write thing , develop habit of transcription that be as distinctive as handwrit and reflect different way of interpret sound . it be natural in these circumstance that different standard should take shape . fieldwork be an adventure , and transcriptional practice reflect that . i can't imagine why anyone think we need a single , " democratically devise " standard . ipa of some sort be good enough for most people who actually use it , and if someone do n't like it , he or she will borrow from some other tradition - american , perhap - or invent another . if i want to look at that person 's note , i will just learn the system - it may take as long as 10 minute - and that will be that . where be the problem ? why should i trade my freedom of transcriptional expression for a rigid code ? why would that benefit me ? no , the " chaos of multiple standard " that stemberger mention do n't bother me at all . there + be + two thing that do bother me , though . one be the frequent change in ipa that have be bandy about recently . when the kiel version of ipa be first promulgate , i be aghast at the large number of weird-look symbol . then come the revision of kiel , and thing be different again . i do n't mind adjustment , as long as they be introduce very gradually . like the agreement a couple of year ago that + either + way of write " g " be acceptable - that only take a few decade to get straight . the idea that lot of change have to be introduce and introduce right away frighten me a little . that be n't to say i do n't enjoy hear the different proposal people advocate , but i will probably still stick to my own transcriptional habit , even so . the other thing that bother me be the mob of systematizer , standardizer , formalist , and unificationist who seem to pop up everywhere in linguistic like dandelion by the side of the road . to my mind , formal systematization be the enemy of good fieldwork . and if a democratic vote + be + ever take on the subject of phonetic alphabet , i hereby move that it be restrict to people who do a + minimum of 100 hour of fieldwork or acoustic measurement + every year for their own , fresh research . as for the rest of you - you be welcome to listen , enjoy the show , but please do n't try to tell me my business . david prager branner , yuen ren society asian l&l , do-21 , university of washington seattle , wa 98195 ( charmius @ u . washington . edu )
