Subject: policy

moderator ' message a very happy 1995 to all our subscriber ! as you can see , linguist be back on line - - on the 8th , not the 5th as we have hop , but we be now up and run at our new address . remember : those of you who post to linguist @ tamvm1 . tamu . edu can continue to use that address . but those of you who use to post to linguist @ tamsun . tamu . edu must change either to the . . . tamvm1 address or to linguist @ tam2000 . tamu . edu the latter be our new editorial address . the . . . tamsun address be now worse than useless : the machine itself have be take off line by texa a&m , so any message send there will simply disappear into an internet black hole . they will not be forward to us . the new year 's issue start with this issue : 6 . 1 . however , the listserv swallow some of the issue we post on dec . 20 and be just now send them out . so you probably receive some issue of volume 5 ( 1994 ) only today . this be not what we intend - - indeed , we work hard to clear the mailer and post all the message we have receive before we shut down on dec 21 . we realize that some of them have deadline . however , listserv malfunction be simply not within our control . the texa a&m sysop take a long ( well-deserve ) ( and , we hope , energize ) christmas vacation . and , until his return , the listserv would not free the issue we have post . and that , by a lighten transition , bring us to a few remark on maintain free discussion on linguist . as linguist grow , it become potentially more powerful - - some may say " threaten " - - by virtue of its role as an information source . it 's natural that controversial policy and posting should generate concern ; and last year we receive a number of complaint , protest , and editorial suggestion . we try to respond to every message individually ; but we 'd also like to publicly explain our policy and our current think about some of the issue that arise . if any of you care to respond , we can continue this discusson on linguist . * we receive several request that we check the accuracy of controversial claim and allegation before we post them . however reasonable this sound , unfortunately it simply be n't possible . linguist process 50-70 message a day ; last year we assemble and post 1600 issue ( as those of you with overfull mailbox know ! ) ; and we get over 1000 database request a week , about 1 / 4 of which require some kind of administrative interchange . we ask our 3 student editor to check message for civility ( more on this below ) ; but they do n't have time to check anything which be not immediately before them on the screen . so there be no way that we can strive for the standard of accuracy of paper journal . and , of course , we aren ' t a journal ; we ' re a discussion list . the only effective check on the accuracy of any post be the discussion itself . so the moral be : - - read with a little scepticism - - and , if you see an inaccuracy , post a correction * the precede apply , of course , to _ professional _ content in posting ; we can't be responsible for the accuracy of anyone 's claim about the number of word for " snow . " nor - - and this be the problematic area - - can we check claim about anyone 's or any institution 's decision , opinion , or conduct . we will make every effort to ensure that any such post have professional relevance , be temperate in phrase , and ( if at all possible ) do not mention name . we also try not to publicize controversy have only personal relevance , since we do n't want linguist to become simply a forum for private grievance . but more than that we can't do . * about more widespread grievance : we have get many protest about cut off discussion that criticize specific school of linguistics . our problem with some of these have be that the criticism be anecdotal , ( sometime ) devoid of academic content , and sound personally aggrieve ( see above ) . also , adherent of the school under attack be tell us they no longer feel welcome on the list . so - - not want linguist to become a grievance forum or a cause of unnecessary divisiveness in the discipline - - we cut off the discussion . but we admit that there be good argument on the side of free speech . so we have decide at least not to cut off discussion abruptly . instead , we will warn " next - to-last post on x " before we send out a " last post " message . and we will post any response on x receive in the interim . also , we 'd like to reiterate that any discussion that could compare school or theory and stick to the academic issue would be very welcome . we be not commit to protect any school from _ scholarly _ criticism ; and , in fact , we would tell any protestor that this be a discussion list , and if they feel attack they must defend themselve through discussion . * about civility : we never intend to become a kind of electronic miss manner , and , frankly , it often feel like a very strange role for your uncouth moderator . however , we ' re commit to keep posting civil in tone because ( 1 ) more than one academic list have ( literally ) go down in flame - - i . e . , the list have disband because the discussion get too personal and heat ; and ( 2 ) , as much as possible , we 'd like everyone - - not just the brave or foolhardy - - to feel comfortable enter a linguist discussion . so we do occasionally return posting with a request that the writer revise toward a less-inflammatory tone . ( we realize , of course , that what be / be not inflammatory be a judgment call ; and our judgment may be wrong . ) however , we have return very few posting ; and - - interestingly - - we have never receive anything but cooperation from the writer . * * * * * * so - - as we ' ve say before - - we think linguist subscriber , all 5700 of you , be a remarkably reasonable , tolerant , and generous set of people . if you have comment or suggestion about the editorial policy we ' ve sketch out above , we would like to hear them . have a very happy new year ! - helen & anthony
