Subject: grammatical relation and derive notion

about two month ago i post a query which , somewhat abbreviate , run as follow : " for some time , i have be puzzle by a claim that i come across frequently in the formal grammatical literature , namely that since grammatical relation be derive , therefore they cannot be refer to by the grammar . more specifically , my puzzlement be not concern with why some people believe both that grammatical relation be derive and that grammatical relation cannot be refer to by the grammar , but rather with why they think the second belief follow necessarily from the first . i would be grateful for any enlightenment on this issue . " my query do n't elicit a vast number of response , so maybe i should conclude that people be n't really interest in this issue , but for those who may be interest i will summarize the response . first , no one defend the position that i criticize . indeed , the general tenor , explicit or implicit , of the response be that the position be erroneous . i be thus incline to continue believe that it be an error that have unfortunately creep into the literature , one which i hope will disappear . some people point to other specific example in linguistics and other science where derive notion play a crucial role , make it meaningful to argue about what be the correct derive notion . second , some people suggest that those who appear to make the claim in question may really be try to say something different ( e . g . simply that the grammar should not refer directly to grammatical relation ) . but examination of the two most recent instance that i encounter , and which prompt me to post the query , show that they only make sense if the claim be interpret literally as i suggest . third , some people ask me to cite reference to where the claim be make . i prefer not to do so . ( 1 ) it be n't my aim to embarrass anyone in front of the whole list ; there be other who be much better at that than i be . ( 2 ) it would be unfair to the author of the two instance that i encounter most recently and which i remember - - i do n't see why i should cite them , especially as they be linguist whose work i respect - - while those i happen not to remember go uncit . i will be happy if the erroneous claim do n't appear in future . i be grateful to the follow for their response : dan finer , f . lehman , adam meyer , fritz newmeyer , sebastian shaumyan , jean - roger vergnaud . bernard comrie ( comrie @ bcf . usc . edu ) bernard comrie dept of linguistic gfs-301 tel + 1 213 740 2986 university of southern californium fax + 1 213 740 9306 lo angele , ca 90089-1693 , usa e-mail comrie @ bcf . usc . edu
