Subject: word that be their own opposite : sum , cont 'd .

here be some explanation of three famous type of auto-antonymy . bob fradkin give us the auto-antonymy of verb of cover / uncover , chuck bigelow follow the english blacken of indo - european ' white ' , and david gamon explore how modal expression may come to mean their opposite . * * * bob fradkin ( raf100f @ oduvm . cc . odu . edu ) write : dust be part of a series of noun-verb conversion relate to covering of thing . if the noun give a cover that be natural to the thing , then the verb means " remove the cover . " if the cover be impose , the verb means " put the cover on . " so you get " shell an egg " " peel a banana " but " paint the furniture " " wax the floor . " dust be interest because it can go either way : " dust the furniture " ( a sort of natural cover to be remove ) v . " dust the crop " ( put stuff on them that they do n't have and would n't unless human put it there ) . i mention this in my english grammar book " stalk the wild verb phrase " ( univ . pr . of america 1991 ) at the end of chp . 3 . * * * chuck bigelow ( bigelow @ cs . stanford . edu ) write : ) from historical linguistics , a well know example of a word 's mean shift to its opposite be english " black " , of which the indo - european root be * bhel - ' to shine , flash , burn , be white ' etc . another modern reflex of * bhel be " bald " - ' have a shine or white head ' . from a variant of * bhel - , * bhelg - / * bhleg - ' to shine , burn ' come germanic * blakaz ' burn ' , and thence old english " blaec " - ' black , that which have be burn ' . nifty . ( i ' m use calvert watkin ' dictionary of ie root , houghton mifflin , as reference . ) * * * david gamon ( gamon @ garnet . berkeley . edu ) write : enantiodriomium refer to the diachronic process of acquire an " opposite " mean , and i suppose a word have two such meaning would be an enantiodrome . i learn this , by the way , from professor matisoff here at berkeley . enantiodromia of modals / attitudinals the first example of such a word i have draw to my attention be * doubt * , which historically have a mean such that to doubt that something be true mean to suspect it to be true . in some part of northern england , i ' m tell , it still have this mean . this be bring to my attention by professor bill stewart at cuny . another example i ' m familiar with be the english modal * must * , which be reconstruct as mean " to have freedom or space " ; the gothic cognate mean " to be free or have permission ( to do something ) . " there be two class of explanation offer in the literature for this particular example of enantiodromium . first explanation : negation drops out klaren ( 1913 ) and antinuccus and parisus ( 1971 ) propose that the semantic shift take place in a negative context , as follow : neg ( free to do x ) - - ) compel ( neg ( do x ) ) given the equivalence of a lack of freedom to do something and a compulsion to not do something , an innovative " compulsion " semantics be reanalyze from the " freedom " semantics in a negative context with concomitant scope change of the negative operator . the reanalysis be make esepcially perspicuous give a & p 's notation , which decompose the older mean of the modal ( freedom / persmission ) into the prime neg ( bind ( neg ) ) : if one be free to do something , then one be not bind to do it ; if this be negate , the first two negs cancel out to leave only the narrow-scope neg , with a resultant mean of bind neg or " compel not " with narrow-scope neg , as follow : cause ( x ) ( neg ( neg ( bind ( neg ( john go out ) ) ) ) ) [ = j . may not go out ] - - - ) cause ( x ) ( bind ( neg ( john go out ) ) ) [ = john must not go out ] the same sort of explanation could be apply in reverse to the german modal * duerfen * , which undergo a semantic shift from an original " necessity " or " compulsion " semantics ( cf . mod . germ . * beduerfen * " need , require , " * duerftig * " needy , poor , lack " ) to the modern " permission " mean : bind ( neg ( do x ) ) - - ) neg ( free ( do x ) ) however , the a&p notation fail to link the conservative and innovative senses in a natural manner . second explanation : antithetical nature of modality the other kind of explanation have be propose by breal ( quote in bech 1951 , p . 19 ) , visser ( 1963-73 , p . 1797 ) and traugott ( 1989 ) , and basically propose that permission be use as a polite way of impose obligation , with the implication subsequently be semanticize , or the originally indirect speech act give way to direct , conventionalize code . one may see the same sort of shift occur in present-day english in context that suggest that this sort of explanation may indeed be valid , as in " you may leave now . " one can see from this , at least , that what count as an " opposite " be largely a matter of the scale one implicitly choose along which to arrange the item at issue , or the specific semantic prime upon which one choose to focus . also , one would n't even think of conceptualize the innovative mean as antonymous if most of the conservative mean be n't be preserve intact . another example be * prove * , which in middle english mean something like " to test , " or in a legal context , " to put on trial . " when the expression " the exception prove the rule " be coin , it quite logically mean that an exception or counterexample to a generalization or claim make you question the generalization or that the exception so to speak put the rule on trial . as the verb * prove * shift its mean 180 degree , the expression , illogical though it then become , be preserve simply because it 's so handy - - whenever someone present counterevidence to your claim , you can write it off as " the exception that prove the rule " ! ( it 's interest , by the way , how many " folk " justification there be of the sense of this idiom - - but that 's another story . ) references antinuccus , francesco and domenico parisus ( 1971 ) . on english modal verb , cls 7 : 28-39 . bech , gunnar ( 1951 ) . grundzuege der semantischen entwicklungsgeschichte der hochdeutschen modalverba . copenhagen : ejnar munksgaard . klaren , g . a . ( 1913 ) . die bedeutungsentwicklung von koennen , moegen , und muessen in hochdeutschen . umea : aktiebolaget umea tryckerier . traugott , elizabeth c . ( 1989 ) . on the rise of epistemic meaning in english : an example of subjectification in semantic change . language 65 : 31-55 . visser , frederikus t . ( 1963-73 ) . an historical syntax of the english language . 3 vol . leiden : brill .
