Subject: optimal artificial language ( humour )

there have be a bite ( wee ) of discussion on this on scus . lang and , well , i could not resist the temptation . here be my contribution to the topic : > from jbm @ newsserver . trl . oz . au ( jacque guy ) deat 27 jan 1995 15 : 29 : 6 + 1100 newsgroup scus . lang subject re : optimal artificial language language be for communication ( not necessarily of truth , mark my word ) , an optimal artificial language should be design so that its message survive unscathe through the worst static . ergo , we want * maximal phonetic differentiation * ( tm ) of the vowel , we pick those maximally distant : a , i , u . of the consonant , ditto : a dental , a labial , a velar . have pick the most differentiate point of articulation we must also pick the most deifferentiate manners thereof . fricative , nasal , stop should do nicely . and let us use voice to help along . that leave us with * three maximally distant consonant * , which be : m , z , k . so far , so good . but we can do better still . let each consonant be associate with one , and only one , vowel , so that , if either consonant or vowel manage to get mangle in the transmission , you can restitute one from the other . naturally , we would match vowel and consonant to ensure least articulatory effort , lest speaker , tire by too much tongue and lip shift , start slur their word . there be n't two way about it : i go with z , u with m , a with k . so there we have it , the perfect language for noise-free communication . it 's cv , no consonant cluster , no diphthong , and each syllable start with exactly one consonant and have only one vowel . if the consonant be z the vowel be i , and so on ( how lazy can one get ! the list of possibility be short indeed , yet i write " and so on " ) . ergo , it have only three possible syllable : zus , ka , mu , thereby be some 130 time easier than chinese ( with its 400 + possible syllable ) . and consider this sample vocabulary ( i leave the meaning to your imagination ) : zizus kaka mumu zizimu kakamu infant will learn it easily ! consider all its advantage : your child will speak fluently before they be two ! one of the first , because shortest , word they will learn will be . . . . . muzika ! thus ensure the earliest possible development of their musical aptitude ! promote zikamu ( tm ) , the international language of to-morrow ! nb it have come to our attention that a renegade splinter group of the original zikamu ( tm ) movement be peddle a pale imitation of zikamu ( tm ) under the plagiarize name " kazimu " . do not be deceive ! the study and practice of their inferior product may cause brain damage ! insist on learn the one and only zikamu ( tm ) . join the official , approve zikamu foundation ( tm ) to day ! ( il y en a de quus vont encore se demander si c ' est du lard ou du cochon . c ' est du lard , bonn gen , c ' est du lard ! )
