Subject: cite e-text summary

dear linguists , here be the summary of response i receive in answer to my query about cite e-text . firstly , though , i would like to thank the follow people who kindly send reference and suggestion : keith schultz bruce nevin ismail s talib evelyn todd karl vogel helmer strik joel kristina harri loren allen billing stavro macraki golge citak - seferoglu michael bernstein petur knutsson jane a . edward , and allan c . wechsler * * * * * several people supply the follow reference : 1 . li , xia & nancy b . crane ( 1993 ) _ electronic style : a guide to cite electronic information _ . meckler ( isbn 0-88736 - 909 - x ) approx . $ 15 . 0 . [ this reference seem to be the standard which most scholar currently follow ] 2 . apa style guide version 1 . 2 , revise july 14 , 1994 prepare by ron corio ( rcorio @ cabell . vcu . edu ) & maggus sokolik ( msokolik @ uclink . berkeley . edu ) adapt from : american psychological association . ( 1983 ) . _ publication manual of the american psychological association ( 3rd . ed . ) . _ washington , d . c . : american psychological association . 3 . _ the chicago manual of style _ 14th edition ( chicago : the university of chicago press , 1993 ) , pp . 633 - 4 , 699 . and loren allen billing give the follow reference : 4 . _ text encode initiative _ . i ' m not sure who publish it , but it be two volumes of everything you want to know about standardize electronic text . publish in 1993 , i believe . jane edward inform that : tesl-ej have prepare an electronic guide to prepare manuscript accord to apa ( american psychological association ) standard . this guide include information on how to cite e-mail message , online article , as well as more traditional reference . if you be interest in get the guide , send a message to : listserv @ cmsa . berkeley . edu the text of the message should be the follow line ( and nothing more ! ) get teslej - l apaguide teslej - l f = mail * * * * * jane then supplies a section from the tesl publication guide : note : the follow be not a complete list . if you have a reference or citation that do not fit the example give here , please consult one of the reference work above . if you do not have access to them , contact one of the author of this file . instructions include a reference list ( head " reference " ) at the end of the tesl-ej article that document your source and provide the necessary information to identify and retrieve each source . reference must include only the source that be use in the research and preparation of the article . a reference list cite specific work that support a particular article . a bibliography cite work for background or for further read . apa journal style require reference list , not bibliography . because of the limitation of ascii , certain typographical feature cannot be display on screen . underscore should be indicate by type an underscore mark before and after the segment of text to be italicize or underline . example : . . . in the journal _ language learn _ , diacritical mark , such as umlaut or accent mark , should be omit . if the omission of these mark create ambiguity or possible misinterpretation , this can be clarify vium a footnote or parenthetical explanation . please note that the example use in this document be for illustration only , and should not be use for actual citation . many be fictional or partly fictional . check all your source carefully . i . in-text documentation citation within the text of a document refer the reader to an alphabetical reference list at the end of the article . apa format use the author-date method of citation . the surname of the author and the date of publication be insert at the appropriate point in the text . a . one work by single author 1 . if the name of the author appear in the text , cite only the year of publication in the text . shannon 's ( 1989 ) historical analysis . . . . 2 . otherwise , place the surname of the author and the year of publication with a comma separate the two . . . . lead to successful language learn ( chaudron , 1988 ) . 3 . within a paragraph you need not repeat the reference to an author 's work as long as it cannot be confuse with other work cite in the article . b . one work by two or more author 1 . when a work have two author , alway use the surname of both author in all citation . join the two name by an ampersand ( & ) within parenthesis , or by " and " within the text . . . . or simply ignore it ( hill & parry , 1988 ) . 2 . when a work have 3 - 6 author , use the surname of all author in the first citation . in subsequent citation , include only the surname of the first author follow by " et al . " . . . process the text hierarchically ( armbruster , anderson & ostertag , 1984 ) . . . . 3 . when a work have more than six author , use only the surname of the first author follow by " et al . " . . . on a test with exclusively open-end question ( pollit et al . , 1985 ) . c . work with no author when a work have no author , cite the first two or three word of the reference list entry follow by the year . the first entry be usually the title . underline the title of a periodical or book and use double quotation mark around the title of an article or chapter . . . . on language use ( " world language , " 1992 ) . . . . in the book ( _ language use _ , 1991 ) . d . specific part of a source to cite a specific part of a source , include the page , chapter , figure , table , or equation in the citation . the word " page " and " chapter " be abbreviate in such citation ( see abbreviation ) . . . . and rewrite what be read ( freire , 1983 , p . 11 ) . abbreviation : chap . chapter ed . edition rev . ed . revise edition 2nd ed . second edition ed . ( ed . ) editor ( editor ) tran . translator ( s ) p . ( pp . ) page ( page ) vol . volume ( as in vol . 4 ) vol . volumes ( as in four volumes ) no . number pt . part tech . rep . technical report suppl . supplement geographical abbreviation : for the u . s . , state and territory in the reference list should use the official two-letter u . s . p . s . abbreviation . city name and country name should not be abbreviate . e . personal communication letter , memo , telephone conversation , etc . be not include in the reference list , thus be cite in the text only . include the initial as well as the surname of the author and provide as exact a date as possible . . . . accord to d . b . cooper ( personal communication , april 15 , 1969 ) . f . reference in parenthetical material if a reference appear within parenthesis , use comma ( not bracket ) to set off the date . . . . the second level ( see figure 1 of cowell & ross , 1992 , for full explanation . ) ii . reference list a . complete reference list the reference list should be in alphabetical order by author 's surname . with name include " de " , " von " , etc . , those name should be alphabetize accord to the rule of the language from which they originate . each entry should be indent five space from the second line forward , and there should be a blank line between entry . b . apa style 1 . periodical doyle , w . ( 1977 ) . learn the classroom environment : an ecological analysis . _ journal of teacher education , 28 _ , 51-55 . 2 . book a . entire book bishop , a . j . & whitfield , r . c . ( 1982 ) . _ situation in teach _ . london : mcgraw - hill . b . article or chapter within a book heath , s . b . ( 1989 ) . the learner as culture member , in m . l . rice & r . l . schiefelbusch ( ed . ) , _ the teachability of language _ ( pp . 333-350 ) . toronto : paul h . brooke . 3 . technical and research report cummin , j . ( 1981 ) . the role of primary language development in promote educational success for language minority student . in californium state department of education ( ed . ) , _ school and language minority student : a theoretical framework _ . lo angele : californium state university , evaluation , dissemination , and assessment center . 4 . proceeding of meeting and symposium olson , d . r . , & hildyard , a . ( 1980 ) . _ literacy and the comprehension of literal mean _ . paper present at the conference on the development and use of write system , biefefeld , germany . 5 . doctoral dissertation and master 's these besnier , n . ( 1986 ) . _ spoken and write register in a restricted-literacy set _ . unpublish doctoral dissertation . university of southern californium , lo angele . 6 . unpublish manuscript and publication of limit circulation parry , j . ( 1982 ) . _ popular attitude toward hindu religious text _ . unpublish manuscript . 7 . translation and non - english text translation : freud , s . ( 1920 ) . _ a general introduction to psychoanalysis _ ( j . riviere , tran . ) . new york : pocket book . non - english text : raynaud de lage , g . ( 1975 ) . _ introduction a l ' ancien francai _ , ( 9e edition ) . [ _ introduction to old french _ , ( 9th ed . ) ] . pari : societe d ' edition d ' enseignement superieur . 8 . review and interview book review : rea , p . m . ( 1984 ) . [ review of _ issue in language test _ by charle alderson and arthur hugh , ed . ] . _ language learn 34 , 3 _ , 175-188 . publish interview : smith , d . ( 1990 ) . [ interview with wu leong ] . _ english yesterday 10 , 5 _ , 57-90 . 9 . nonprint medium film : kirosawa , a . ( director & producer ) . ( 1970 ) . _ dode ' kaden _ [ film ] . tokyo : film ltd . audio record : carter , b . ( speaker ) . ( 1977 ) . _ the growth of english _ . ( cassette record no . 222 ) . new york : audio associate . 10 . electronic medium computer program : sandford , j . a . & browne , r . j . ( 1985 ) . captain 's log : cognitive train system ( version 1 . 0 ) [ computer program ] . indianapoli : psychological software service , inc . online database : _ the educational directory _ . [ online ] . ( 1992 ) . available : knowledge index file : the educational directory ( educ6 ) . ftp or telnet : kehoe , b . p . ( 1992 ) . _ zen and the art of the internet ( 2nd . ed . ) , [ online ] . available ftp ( or telnet ) : quake . think . com directory : pub / etext / 1992 file : zen10 . text article available vium e-mail : root , c . ( 1994 ) . esl and learn disability : a guide for the esl practitioner . _ tesl-ej 1 _ . available e-mail : listserv @ cmsa . berkeley . edu message : get teslej01 a - 4 teslej - l f = mail to cite e-mail message : general format : author ( year , month day ) . _ subject of message _ [ e-mail to receiver 's name ] , [ online ] . available e-mail : receiver 's e-mail address . example : corio , r . ( 1994 , june 1 ) . _ apa guide deadline _ [ e-mail to margaret e . sokolik ] , [ online ] . available e-mail : msokolik @ uclink . berkeley . edu . * * * * * far as the location of a citation within an e-text be concern keith schultz offer the follow advice : 1 ) mention of context ; 2 ) character position of begin within e-text 3 ) location give in paragraph , line , chapter , etc . naturally , these method be not very effective or feasible for the human reader , but a human with a computer can very effectively find the give citation within an e-text within seconds give the above information . secondly , as e-text be generally locate on mass storage ( disk ) they can be directly distribute with your article for reference . and not last but least the citation itself be a positional marker of the citation within the text itself if it be sufficiently large enough . finally , some noteworthy comment and common sense advice : keith also note : " i would not cite any source without first know where it have come from and its source as it be far to easy to manipulate any e-text and pass it on without leave any trace of foul play , other than it differ from the original . " on this same note , stavro macraki state : " if the provenance [ of the e - text ] be not clear , i do n't know why you 'd want to cite the thing in the first place ! if i give you a half-dozen xerox copy without the necessary bibliographic information , you would be wise not to rely on them too much ! " and finally an important note on etiquette from evelyn todd : " if you wish to cite an item that you receive vium [ . . . e-mail list ] , please consider if the post be public or private and contact its author for permission to cite . posting can be consider as publish material , but it be alway wise to check with the author before assume that widespread dissemination be intend . " [ i hope the evelyn and the other author of the above comment do not mind my break this rule of etiquette here . ] i hope the information in this summary be of as much use to you all as it be to me and colleague . thank again to all those who contribute . " moce mada " jan tent department of literature and language school of humanity the university of the south pacific p . o . box 1168 suva fiji tel : ( 679 ) 313900 ext . 2263 fax : ( 679 ) 305053 e - mail : tent _ j @ usp . ac . fj
