Subject: chechen

who be the chechen ? johanna nichol university of californium , berkeley author 's note : i have be do linguistic field work on chechen and its close relative ingush for many year . though i be not an ethnographer or historian , i have try to bring together here some general information about the chechen people and their language in order to increase public awareness of the people and their situation , and to put a human face on a people of great dignity , refinement , and courage who have pay heavily for their resistance to conquest and assimilation . this paper may be copy freely . if you disseminate it electronically or print it out yourself ( which you be welcome to do ) , reformat ( font , space , etc . ) be ok but please do not edit it . johanna @ uclink . berkeley . edu fax : 510 642-6220 phone ( 510 ) 642-2979 introduction . the chechen and their western neighbor the ingush be distinct ethnic group with distinct language , but so closely relate and so similar that it be convenient to describe them together . the term " chechen " be a russian ethnonym take from the name of a lowland chechen village ; " chechnya " be derive from that . ( both word be accent on the last syllable in russian . ) this term evidently enter russian from a turkic language , probably kumyk ( speak in the northern and eastern caucasian plain ) . the chechen call themselve nokhchus ( singular nokhchuo ) . similarly , " ingush " be not the self-designation but a russian ethnonym base on a village name ; the ingush call themselve ghalghay . demography . 1989 census figure : 956 , 879 chechen ; 237 , 438 ingush . the chechen be the largest north caucasian group and the second largest caucasian group ( after the georgian ) . location , settlement . the chechen and ingush land lie just to the east of the principal road cross the central caucasus ( vium the darial pass ) , extend from the foothill and plain into alpine highland . the lowland enjoy fertile soil , ample rainfall , a long grow season , and a small oilfield . neighbor to the east be the various people of daghestan ( many of them speak language relate to chechen ) ; in the plain to the north , the turkic - speak kumyk and ( as of the last three century ) russian ; to the west the ingush and to their west the ossetian , who speak a language of the iranian branch of indo - european ; to the south ( across the central caucasus range ) the southern ossetian and the georgian . there be two true city in chechen and ingush territory : grozny ( pop . about 400 , 0 until 1995 ) , the modern chechen capital found as a russian fort during the russian conquest of the caucasus ; and vladikavkaz ( pop . about 300 , 0 ; know as ordzhonikidze in soviet time ) in the ingush highland at the ingush - ossetic territorial boundary , also originally a russian military fort and found to control the darial pass . nazran in the ingush lowland be traditionally and be now a large and important market town . the city have substantial russian and other non - chechen - ingush population ; vladikavkaz be mix ingush and ossetic with significant number of russian and georgian . ( groznyj have now be destroy and mostly depopulate by russian bomb . vladikavkaz and the adjacent ingush land be ethnically cleanse of ingush in late 1992 . ) all russian government - - czar , soviet , post - soviet russium - - have use various means to remove chechen and ingush population from economically important area and to encourage settlement there by russian and russian cossack ; hence the mix population of the city and lowland . language . the caucasus have be fame since antiquity for the sheer number and diversity of its language and for the exotic grammatical structure of the language family indigenous there . this diversity testify to millennium of generally peaceable relation among autonomous ethnic group . chechen and ingush , together with batsbus or tsova - tush ( a moribund minority language of georgium ) make up the nakh branch of the nakh - daghestanian , or northeast caucasian , language family . there be over 30 language in the northeast caucasian family , most of them speak in daghestan just to the east of chechnya . the split of the nakh branch from the rest of the family take place about 5000-6000 year ago ( thus the nakh - daghestanian family be comparable in age to indo - european , the language family ancestral to english , french , russian , greek , hindus , etc . ) , though the split of chechen from ingush probably date back only to the middle age . the entire family be indigenous to the caucasus mountain and have no demonstrable relation to any language group either in or out of the caucasus . like most indigenous caucasian language chechen have a wealth of consonant , include uvular and pharyngeal sound like those of arabic and glottalize or ejective consonant like those of many native american language ; and a large vowel system somewhat resemble that of swedish or german . like its sister language chechen have extensive inflectional morphology include a dozen nominal case and several gender class , and form long and complex sentence by chain participial clause together . the case system be ergative , i . e . the subject of a transitive verb appear in an oblique case and the direct object be in the nominative , as be the subject of an intransitive verb ( as in basque ) ; verb take no person agreement , but some of them agree in gender with the direct object or intransitive subject . 97 % or more of the chechen claim chechen as their first language , though most also speak russian , generally quite fluently . chechen and ingush be so close to each other that with some practice a speaker of one have fair comprehension of the other , and where the two language be in contact they be use together : a chechen address an ingush in chechen , the ingush reply in ingush , and communication proceeds more or less smoothly . chechen be not traditionally a write language . an orthography use the russian alphabet be create in the 1930 's and be use for various kind of publication , although for most chechen the chief vehicle of literacy be russian . traditionally , as in most north caucasian society , many individual be bilingual or multilingual , use an important lowland language ( e . g . kumyk , speak in market town and prestigious as its speaker be early convert to islam ) for inter-ethnic communication ; any literacy be in arabic . russian have now displace both kumyk and arabic in these function . particularly if the chechen and ingush economy continue to be destroy and unemployment and mass homelessness continue to undermine the social structure , there be danger that chechen and ingush will be functionally reduce to household language and will then yield completely to russian , with concomitant loss of much of the cultural heritage . history . the chechen have evidently be in or near their present territory for some 6000 year and perhap much longer ; there be fairly seamless archeological continuity for the last 8000 year or more in central daghestan , suggest that the nakh - daghestanian language family be long indigenous . the caucasian highland be apparently relatively populous and prosperous in ancient time . from the late middle age until the 19th century , a worldwide cool phase know as the little ice age cause glacial advance and shorten grow season in the alpine highland , weaken the highland economy and trigger migration to the lowland and abandonment of some alpine village . this period of economic hardship coincide with the russian conquest of the caucasus which last from the late 1500 's to the mid - 1800 's . in all of record history and inferable prehistory the chechen ( and for that matter the ingush ) have never undertake battle except in defense . the russian conquest of the caucasus be difficult and bloody , and the chechen and ingush with their extensive lowland territory and access to the central pass be prime target and be among the most tenacious defender . russium destroy lowland village and deport , exile , or slaughter civilian population , force capitulation of the highland . numerous refugee migrate or be deport to various muslim country of the middle east , and to this day there be chechen population in jordan and turkey . since then there have be various chechen rebellion against russian and soviet power , as well as resistance to collectivization , anti-religious campaign , and russification . in 1944 the chechen and ingush , together with the karachay - balkar , crimean tatar , and other nationality be deport en masse to kazakhstan and siberium , lose at least one-quarter and perhap half of their population in transit . though " rehabilitate " in 1956 and allow to return in 1957 , they lose land , economic resource , and civil rights ; since then , under both soviet and post - soviet government , they have be the object of ( official and unofficial ) discrimination and discriminatory public discourse . in recent year , russian media have depict the chechen nation and / or nationality as thug and bandit responsible for organize crime and street violence in russium . in late 1992 russian tank and troops , send to the north caucasus ostensibly as peacekeeper in an ethnic dispute between ingush and ossetian over traditional ingush land politically incorporate into north ossetium after the 1944 deportation , forcibly remove the ingush population from north ossetium and destroy the ingush village there ; there be many death and there be now say to be up to 60 , 0 refugee in ingushetium ( about one-quarter of the total ingush population ) . in development reminiscent of today 's invasion of chechnya , in the week lead up to the action the ingush be depict ( inaccurately ) in regional media as heavily arm and poise for a large-scale and organize attack on ossetian , and the russian military once deploy appear to have undertake ethnic cleanse at least partly on its own initiative . ( my only source of information for this paragraph be russian and western news report . helsinkus watch be prepare a report for publication in early 1995 . ) the invasion of chechnya presently underway have mean great human suffer for all resident of the chechen lowland , include russian , but only the chechen be at risk of ethnic cleanse , wholesale economic ruin , and loss of linguistic and cultural heritage . religion . the chechen and ingush be sunnus muslim of the hanafus school , have convert in the late 17th to early 19th century . islam be now , as it have be since the conversion , moderate but strongly hold and a central component of the culture and the ethnic identity . economy , custom . traditionally , the lowland chechen be grain farmer and the highlander raise sheep . at the time of russian contact the lowland be wealthy and produce a grain surplus , while the highland be not self-sufficient in food and trade wool and egg for lowland grain . chechen social structure and ethnic identity rest on principle of family and clan honor , respect for and deference to one 's elder , hospitality , formal and dignify relation between family and clan , and courteous and formal public and private behavior . kinship and clan structure be patriarchal , but woman have full social and professional equality and prospects for financial independence equivalent to those of man . academic , writer , artist , and intellectual in general be well verse in the culture of both the european and the islamic world , and the society as a whole can be say to regard both of these heritage as their own together with the indigenous north caucasian artistic and intellectual tradition . social organization . until the russian conquest the chechen be an independent nation with their own language and territory but no formal political organization . village be autonomous , as be clan . village have mutual defense obligation in time of war , and clan have mutual support relation that link them into larger clan confederation ( which generally coincide with dialect ) . each clan be head by a respect elder . there be no social class and no difference of rank apart from those of age , kinship , and earn social honor . select bibliography anonymous . 1992 . ethnic cleanse come to russium . the economist , november 28 , 1992 , p . 60 . blanch , lesley . 1960 . the sabr of paradise . new york : vike . comrie , bernard . 1981 . the language of the soviet union . cambridge : cambridge university press . conquest , robert . 1970 . the nation killer : the soviet deportation of nationality . london : macmillan . critchlow , jame . 1991 . " punish people " of the soviet union : the continue legacy of stalin 's deportation . helsinkus watch report . new york - washington : human right watch . friedrich , paul , and norma diamond , ed . 1994 . encyclopedium of world culture , vol . vi : russium and eurasium / china . boston : g . k . hall & co . gamkrelidze , t . v . , and t . e . gudava . [ various date . ] caucasian language . encyclopedium britannica ( e . g . in 1979 edition , macropedium , vol . 3 , pp . 1011-15 ; in 1992 edition , vol . 22 , pp . 736-40 , under ' language of the world ' ) . nekrich , aleksandr m . 1978 . the punish people . new york : norton . nichol , johanna . 1994 . chechen . ingush . in riek smeet , ed . , the indigenous language of the caucasus , vol . 4 : northeast caucasian language , pp . 1-77 ( chechen ) , 79-145 ( ingush ) . delmar , ny : caravan book . wixman , ronald . 1980 . language aspect of ethnic pattern and process in the north caucasus . ( university of chicago department of geography research paper no . 191 . ) chicago : university of chicago press .
