Subject: sum : risk

content - length : 15606 i be surprise to receive so many reply on my comment about " risk " . so far they include : alison huettner bart mathia john r . lee scott delancey deborah milam berkley tim beasley eric pederson claudium brugman martha o'kennon andrew carstair - mccarthy sandus michele de oliveira ( try to get sick = about to get sick ) debra r west balsa stipcevic i decide to post a summary for several reason : 1 ) my comment make some respondent sufficiently insecure to wonder what other respondent think . 2 ) i do n't want anyone to get the idea that my comment may represent an authoritative or majority opinion . 3 ) although i usually try to respond individually to everyone , i get tire think of different way to say the same thing . overwhelmingly , but not unanimously , the respondent disagree with me . alison huettner represent the majority response : " funny , i have the opposite take on " risk " - - to me " he risk lose the game " sound fine and " he risk win the game " take a little more process . " unusual be agreement , such as represent by tim beasley " both sound good to me . the first paraphrase " he run / stand the risk of lose the game " , " he place himself in risk of lose the game . " the second , " he place in jeopardy . at risk . his win of the game . " as imply above , both side of the atlantic want to disown me , e . g . , from bart mathia of californium : " no thought , but i think i 'd report that i expect to see a . uk or . au or something in your address when i check it after read your message . i for one ( bear and raise in californium ) find " risk win , " at least at the moment , cause a double-take reaction . to me it be equivalent to " be in / put oneself in danger of . " however , from john r . lee at an edinburgh address : " this be interest . i be very surprise to see " he risk win the game " ! perhap as a british english speaker ( ? ) , to risk lose the game seem a much more natural concept . " larger context make me think john consider himself , not me , to be the british speaker . in any case , andrew carstair - mccarthy of new zealand make a similar comment . back on the american side , scott delancey agree with the majority and add some interest grammatical comment : " this seem * really * strange to me . my reaction be exactly the opposite of yours . a clausal complement of _ risk _ be * alway * a negative and undesirable result . i can't even interpret _ he risk win the game _ , except in some strain context in which win would n't be a good thing . " _ risk _ can have a positive np complement - - _ he risk his fortune _ be perfectly ok - - but not a clausal one , i . e . this could be expand to _ he risk lose his fortune _ , but ? ? _ he risk win a fortune _ be impossible for me . " eric pederson and claudium brugman inform me that chuck fillmore have write a paper on " risk " . claudium write : " [ by ] sue atkin and charle fillmore which i do n't know whether they ' ve publish ( or indeed finish ) yet , but they talk about these two meaning of the word in term of the selection as complement of different aspect of the conceptual / semantic frame : one be where the desire outcome be select , the other be where the " collateral " be select . " i have n't see the paper yet , but it be comfort to the extent that it seem to take cognizance of my impression . however , i suspect that the " collateral " means a simple np express the desirable object , as scott allow , and not a clausal complement . thus some reply suggest that " he risk his life " would have to be expand into " he risk * lose * his life " . i have to admit that that sound better to me than " he risk * keep * ( ? ) his life " . nevertheless , my theory be that in my rush to learn english i make the follow logical leap . " to risk your life " be to risk something good , so you should risk " win t he game " , not " lose the game " . risk fine , death , imprisonment and cancer be later experience for me . i ' m quite sure " risk life " be the first ex pression i hear . by the way , i ' m not at all sure that i differ from other on our favorite gallicism of " running the risk of / that [ something bid happen / will happen . " , so that 's a different expression . i kinda doubt that genuine dialect difference be respo nsible for difference in " risk " - - only idiosyncratic difference in generalisation , some of which survive contradictory datum learn later - - an interest point that have be make before in language acquisition theory . among the interest comment i receive which suggest to me that relatively discrete semantic splits may result from such process , and even become genuine dialect feature be sandus michele de oliveira 's observation that in south texa the expression " try to get sick " can be use for " about to get sick " . i wonder if " try to rain " could mean " threaten to rain " in such dialect . of possibly different origin be the ambivalent serbo - croatian verb " sumnjatus " ( = " to doubt " or " to suspect " ) . balsa stipcevic indicate that : " sumnjam da je on to uradio . " can have two meaning : 1 ) " i suspect that he do it . " 2 ) " i doubt that he do it . " here i suppose that the verb may have start off neutral to the belief status of its sentential complement , but it remains interest that there be such a glare pragmatic ambiguity in what a speaker may be imply . maybe english " wonder " be similar . " i wonder if he do it " . if he say he do , then the sentence would seem to suggest that i doubt it , but if he say he do n't , it would seem to mean that i doubt that . i ' m not gonna torture myself try to figure out whether the same context - ualisation difference work for " i wonder if he do ' t do it " , but maybe someone / body else want to give it a shoot . i write back to balsa that i hop his comment on this verb be more generally agree upon by serbo - croatian speaker than my comment on " risk " . - - benjus
