Subject: sum : object affix

dear linguist the time have come for me to post a summary base on reply to a query i post a few week ago . this summary be rather long , and have the follow structure : 1 ) the original query 2 ) acknowledgement of respondent 3 ) discussion of a few language 4 ) general discussion 5 ) ref 6 ) outline of relevant detail of roviana 7 ) summary 1 ) the query ) i be study roviana , a western oceanic lg . there be pronominal object ) suffix which occur on the verb index person , number etc . however , ) there be no affix on the verb which would correspond to 's ubject ' ) ( however we may construe the concept ) . dixon ( 1994 ) claim that there ) be no lg with object affix but which lack subject affix . doe ) anybody else know of any other counter-example ? 2 ) acknowledgement . my thanks to the follow people ( list in no particular order ) for their response ( and my apology if i have leave anyone out ) : matthew dryer , karen wallace , mark campana , eloise jelinek , leo connolly , geoffrey nathan , johann heinecke , malcolm ross , mark mandel , jaejung song . first , a point of clarification . by western oceanic i mean a branch of eastern austronesian . some of the reply seem to indicate that people interpret it to mean western austronesian . ( not that it be really important ) . some people reply with example of language with object affix , whether or not the language in question also have affix indicate other grammatical relation . matthew dryer reply with the follow list of language which have object affix but no subject affix ( take from an a database mention by him in language 1992 ) : africa : central khoisan ( nama ) , ijoid ( kolokuma ijo ) , gur ( bimoba ) , east chadic ( kera ) , biu-mandara ( margus , mbara ) , west chadic ( ngizim ) . eurasium : nax ( ingush ) , avaro-andi - dido ( avar ) , lezgic ( archus ) , munda ( mundarus ) . se asium oceanium : nicobarese ( car nicobarese ) , central-eastern malayo-polynesian ( kiribatese , ponapean , woleaian ) . north america : pimic ( papago ) . south america : warao , maipurean ( palikur ) . i have not be able to follow up on all of these ref . i have however , look at the micronesian language . 3 ) discussion of a few language sohn ( 1975 ) re woleaian : object suffix , but no affix correspond to any other grammatical relation . 3sg have three form : zero and - y / - w . it seem that verb fall in to two class , with zero be add to verb in one class ( many of whose member appear to have a tr suffix ) and - y / - w to member of the other class ( the choice in form be phonologically condition ) . interestingly , 3pl distinguish animate v inanimate , wherea all other person and number do not . these affix can occur with or without an overt independent object np . these affix occur on certain post-verbal advb , suggest that they may in fact be clitic . zewen ( 1977 ) re marshallese . pronominal object immediately follow the verb . 3sg and 3pl be enclitic and undergo vowel harmony . these enclitic can co-occur with lexical np object . ' subject ' pron be all independent . grove , grove and jacob ( 1985 ) re kiribatese . it seem from their description that the language have object suffix but no other affix indicate grammatical relation . however , there be thing which could perhap be analyze as subject prefix ( p1 08 ) . exactly which object suffix get attach ( out of 11 class ) seem to be lexically determine . 4 ) general discussion it would appear that there be no cross-linguistic study of object affix per se . some respondent question whether the object suffix in roviana be really suffix and not just clitic . they be suffix , but even if they be n't the focus of my interest would be the same . i be focus on two fact about roviana : ( a ) the case mark on np 's be on an ergative-absolutive basis , but the only grammatical relation indicate by verbal affix be object . ( b ) of the object affix , only 3pl have zero form . bee functionally incline , i be interest in find a motivation for ( b ) . it be not simply a case of referentiality ( see the brief sketch below ) . 5 ) ref ( with diacritic mangle by the internet ) corston , simon h . 1993 . ergativity in roviana . ma thesis : auckland university , new zealand . ( to appear in the pacific linguistic sery ) . grove , terab ' ata r , grove , gordon w . and jacob , roderick . 1985 . kiribatese : an outline description . pacific linguistic , sery d , no . 64 . anu print service : anu . sohn , ho - min with the assistance of tawerilmang , anthony f . 1975 . woleian reference grammar . pacific and asian language institute : micronesium . honoloulu : university press of hawaius . zewen , francoi - xavier n . 1977 . the marshallese language : a study of its phonology , morphology and syntax . veroffentlichungen de seminar fur indonesische und sudseesprachen der universitat hamburg , band 10 . berlin : verlag . 6 ) outline of relevant detail of roviana the follow be a brief description of roviana base on my own field work ( corston 1993 ) . case mark on np 's be split ergative , in a typologically unusual way : absolutive be mark ( si / se ) , ergative be unmark . pronoun , proper np 's and enumerate np 's in main clause distinguish erg v ab by means of special particle . all other np 's be neutral ( ie do not formally distinguish a / s / o ) . as well as use special particle , pron distinguish erg v ab in the form of the pron . a , s and o be alway specific . person object suffix 1sg - u , - au 2sg - xo 3sg - a 1pl . incl - xita 1pl . excl - xamus 2pl - xamu 3pl - 0 ( zero ) these affix be similar to or the same as various indep pronoun , e . g . compare rau 1sg xous 2sg xita 1pl . incl xamus 1pl . excl xamu 2pl but , asa 3sg abs or sa 3sg erg sarinus 3pl abs or rus 3pl erg ( there be quite a story to sarinus historically , see the ma ) if there be a do np , you get the affix e . g . meke doxor-us - a rus si keke ixana and see - tr-3sg . do they abs one fish ( erg ) ' and they see a fish . ' ( animal , 28 ) ( the paper i be write now clarify why i only put erg in parenthesis - it be really unmark , and you have to infer in this context that the pron = erg because there be no particle ) kote arina tie ma magu-us - 0 sarinus fut pl man come carve - tr-3pl . do 3pl . abs ' the man will come and carve them up . ' ( feast , 14 ) ( them = pig in a feast ) nb , here the do be the pron sarinus . however , you can get the affix even if there be no overt do np , suggest that they have independent reference , e . g . aus lul-us - u mo intj follow - tr-1sg . do dt ' hey ! follow me . ' ( animal , 9 ) and the follow longer example . e saimone sa tie he-hegere hoirana . pers simon def man dup - laugh there ' that 's simon , the man who 's laugh over there . ' avos-us - a xous ? hear - tr-3sg . do you ( erg ) ' do you hear him ? ' ( day , 029-030 ) note that the suffix do not ' index ' absolutive etc , only o . ( see ma ) roviana have case mark and quantify np 's . case ( erg , ab , obl , etc ) be indicate by article before the np . quantifier ( number , 's ome ' , ' all ' etc ) precede the head n . non - specific undergoer obligatorily occur in a background object construction . compare the follow two example . raro talo si gamus cook taro abs 1pl . excl ' we cook taro ' / ' we do some taro cook ' it be difficult to say if ' talo ' be ' incorporate ' since there be no other indep element assoc with the verb which ever come after . note that the background constr be intr , with no transitive mark , and with the actor as s . compare to the ' usual ' order vao raro-a gamus sa talo cook - 3sg . do 1pl . excl def taro ' we cook the taro . ' undergoer which be pragmatically background can also occur in the background object construction , irrespective of whether they be referential or not . 7 ) summary * language with object affix but which lack affix indicate other grammatical relation do occur , but would appear to be uncommon . * i feel that have 3pl as the only zero form be unusual , but be unable to find a cross-linguistic study to bear this out . even so , the zero form require a functional explanation ( cf du boi , john w . 1987 ' absolutive zero : paradigm adaptivity in sacapultec maya ' , lingua 71 : 203-222 ) . again , my thanks to those who reply . ps i should have a draft of my paper ' featuredness and core argument in roviana ' available shortly . simon corston corston @ humanita . ucsb . edu
