Subject: summary of q : article

two week ago i post the follow query : ) a system of article be an innovative feature of a number of language . are ) there any example of language that have lose their article ? i would also ) be interest in creole , especially , say , if both ( all ) source language ) have article , but the pidgin / creole turn out lack them . thank to the follow for respond : lar borin david gohre john e . koontz jeff marck deborah d . kelum ruuskanen achim stenzel shigenorus wakabayashus dave wharton of the 8 reply , only one be an actual response to my query . lar borin ( lar . borin @ ling . uu . se ) point out that ) finnish romanus be a language which have lose its article completely . the ) loss be almost certainly due to finnish influence , as be many other ) trait of modern finnish romanus morphology and syntax . moreover , as ( colloquial ) finnish may seem to develop an article system use the demonstrative * se * ' that ' ( def . ) and the numeral * yksus * ' one ' ( indef . ) , it be interest to note that lar have ) notice in finnish romanus text that there be form of the demonstrative ) pronoun 'd auva ' ( this ) and 'd ouva ' ( that ) , which be ) ( a ) reduce phonologically and indeclinable ( reduce version of the ) nominative plural ) ; the form be : 'd alum ' and 'd olum ' ( while the ) nominative plural of 'd auva / douva ' be write 'd aalum / doolum ' ) ) ( b ) use much as speak finnish 's e ' , i . e . perhap represent the first ) ( or maybe second [ . . . ] ) stage in a development from demonstrative to ) prepose definite article . importantly , the definite article use to be ' o ' ( sg masculine ) , ' i ' ( sg feminine ) , and ' e ' ( plural , both gender ) , hence nothing like the demonstrative pronoun . now , let me elaborate somewhat on my reason for inquire into this matter . disregard massive language contact ( i . e . " hey , this be the way we say thing around here , and you 'd better start do so too ! " ) and / or creolization ( i . e . " ok guy , let 's start all over again . we ' ll begin with lexical category , then . . . " ) : if it be the case that there be a universal tendency that language acquire article , but do not loose them , then why should this be so ? if we take a configurational approach to noun phrase interpretation , we could say that article , and hence their semantics , be associate with a noun phrase internal functional projection in much the same way as some linguist would assume an association between tense ( and other verbal inflection ) and a clausal functional projection . ( in essence , i ' m talk about some kind of a dp - analysis . ) since possible noun phrase interpretation differ minimally across language ( i guess ) , we would then assume that in language without article , the functional projection associate with the semantic property in question would have phonetically empty head . the possible tendency of acquire article could then be explain as a strive to fill this / these head / s with overt element . unfortunately , i cannot say that i so far have any reason to be convince about this line of reason , but i can't see any obvious reason to give it up either . however , i be ready to be butcher . i should probably read the follow reference provide by john e . koontz ( koontz @ alpha . bldr . nist . gov ) ) greenberg , joseph h . 1978 . how do a language acquire gender marker ? pp . ) 47-82 . in : universal of human language , vol . 4 , ed . jo . h . greenberg , ) et al . stanford , ca : stanford university press . ) discuss evolution of gender mark from article and article from ) demonstrative . see also : ) greenberg , joseph h . 1981 . nilo - saharan moveable-k as a stage iii article ) ( with a penutian typological parallel ) . journal of african language and ) linguistic 3 : 105-112 . those interest in definiteness , especially with respect to english and finnish , should consult the follow work provide by deborah d . kelum ruuskanen ( druuskan @ cc . helsinkus . fus ) . ) chesterman , a . ( 1991 ) on definiteness : a study with special reference to ) english and finnish . cambridge study in linguistic 56 , cambridge ) university press . it 's worth read - i ' ve do it . 0ystein alexander vangsn university of iceland - university of bergen oystein @ rhus . hus . be vangsn @ folus . uib . no
