Subject: profit on technology !

( pardon this intrusion , you be mention as someone who would have an interest in technology ) we be in the begin of an excite , " trillion dollar emerge market " in technology . in the next 3 minute below , i will show you how to capitalize on this extraordinary trend ! here 's the trillion dollar trend in american business that i ' m speak of ! you may have notice over the past few month the incredible number of billion dollar merger in us business . huge merger like worldcom and mci , traveler and citus - the list be endless but they one common thread - services , services , services ! ! service like : travel service , bank service , telephony service , entertainment service and utility service . all of these service that you , i and everyone we know use , be be combine into one , trillion dollar market of " bundle service " . service have be the fastest grow segment of the us economy for a number of year but this " bundle service " market be new . these be service that everyone use - everyday , offer from one , simple source ! why be " bundle service " such a big deal ? let 's add it up : bank service = hundred of billion travel service = hundr of billion telephony service = $ 200 billion in us , $ 1 trillion worldwide ( internet access , page , cellular , long distance , local dial , cable tv , digital satellite , voice mail , virtual office , web tv ) utility ( be deregulate now ) : electricity = $ 250 billion , gas = $ 70 bill . internet commerce = $ 8 billion ( project to reach $ 350 billion in 5 year ) in short , " bundle service " be every conceivable service that you , i and everyone we know use . a war be wage for these huge market with the largest service company in the world , and million will be make from those entrepreneur who position themselve in front of this trend . these service / technology company be buy company leave and right so they can offer more services . these company be fight tooth and nail because they know something most of us do n't know . as a gte study reveal , when a customer enroll on a single service they will stay on that service for an average of 2 year , with two service the average move to 4 year . when a customer enroll on 3 service , they will stay with that provider for an incredible average of 20 years ! imagine the cash flow on just one customer use 3 - 6-10 - 20 service , for 20 years . what would that cash flow be worth ? a whole bunch , and that 's why the race be on . the first company to get customer on 3 or more service - win ! that 's why these service company be spend billion in advertise to attract customer . but . . . these huge , traditional service company have a serious problem . they can not get directly in front these customer . even if they could send someone directly over , would they find them at home ? if they be at home , would they let them in their house ? people decide on which service company they wish to use , base on recommendation from people they know ! here 's my point : who better to make recommendation for service than from the people you know ! we do this unconsciously everyday anyway - now you can get pay for it ! we simply , and very passively , offer people we know , a " free package of service " design to save them money and make their life simpler . the more they use the more they save ! this package will make their life easier with single bill for all the services they use . we can save them money by leverage our parent companies $ 1 . 6 billion dollar buying power to offer the most competitive price available anywhere for this package ! it get even better ! we be not talk about no-name company with questionable service . we be talk about the biggest service and technology company in the world ! company that be already a household name . these company realize that " word of mouth " be the best way to get in front of customer . your associate & friend win , and you win ! they handle all the service / customer support - we just make the recommendation ( this could be as simple as pass out a brochure ) . service can create a true residual income ( no inventory here ! ) . what could an extra $ 10 - $ 50 , 0 a year do for your family - for the next 20 year ? with a more concentrate effort , the potential be " income replacement " and beyond . in addition to the monthly residual income you will earn on these service , you may also earn over ride on other re-marketer . the system of deliver service in the next evolutionary step in network - we call it " internetwork " . the reason we call it " internetwork " be that everything can be accomplish vium the internet . given the trillion dollar size of this untap market , our financial back and billion dollar partner , we project that we will be a billion dollar company and household name in 3 year . you be learn about us in the first 30 days ! time be everything . imagine if you talk with an associate who have numerous property management contact . let 's say this contact of yours know several property manager who own thousand of rental unit . the property management company could offer these service to thousand of tenant . the property management company earn a fortune , your associate earn a fortune and you earn a fortune . this be leverage income ! there be hundred of way to market this because everyone use these service . as a matter of fact , who do you know that would not be interest in save money on their service bill , with the same top grade service company and have the convenience of a single bill ? in summary , bundle service be a trillion dollar untap market , ripe for entrepreneur with vision . customer get the same quality service from the largest provider but now through one source ! because of our buy power and the fact you afford to give bigger discount when customer be use more service ( bundle ) , it 's a win / win situation , and represent one of the largest business trend of this century . . . food for think . . . social psychologist tell us that each person run into at least two opportunity that could in fact , reshape their life . the question here be this , be this your first opportunity or your last ? an interest question . with a simple investigation , you will determine this opportunity and company , be for real . if you ' re too busy , that 's exactly why you need to do this . in three year or less , you can create the lifestyle you wish , with the effort of course . get the fact and make an inform decision . please visit our site now : http : / / www . vwc . com / pauld thank you for your attention , the wave 4 group ps : this be a one time mail
