Subject: a unique email advertisement

hello the follow information be not mean to spam or upset anyone , that be why we include advertisement in the subject line to give you an option to delete before you open the message . we be a reliable internet company that do full internet market . whatever your need to market your business or product , a . i . m . can help you achieve your success . please do not treat this as just another piece of junk mail , we be aime to your success . a . i . m . be establish in 1994 and have help many people on the internet market their business and product successfully . we do not sell random bulk email list , nor do we advertise adult site or chain letter . right now the largest form of communication be do through the internet , and 1998 will be another record break year . there be over 60 million people that have internet access world wide , and that number continue to rise at a rate of over 40 , 0 per month . the best way to market any product or service be through the internet , and random bulk mail be not the way to go . you may ask , why be i send you this one piece of email ; to get my information out so that other can follow the same practice of internet advertise . the internet community would benefit from direct advertise ! now you ask what can we offer you . . . . . custom targeted email addresses no matter what your target be , we can compile a great list for you of people or business that be interest in what you offer . say , for instance , you would like to send a newsletter out to people interest in mlm ; we can compile a list for you of people currently involve in mlm . if you would like a list of people look for a business opportunity , we can compile that list for you . you tell us your target ; we will compile that list . we can even target your list geographically . example . . . if your business be sell cd s , and your company be base in ny ; we can gather a list of people in ny interest in cd s . we have a client that be involve in mlm , who ask us to target 1000 opportunity seeker to start . to his surprise he get 7 new people in his downline from just that one mail . another client want to send a letter out to birdwatcher . we target 5000 birdwatcher for him ; and he , also , become a very happy client of ours . we have target . . investor , business , international address , woman , man , age group , cite , state , doctor , lawyer , etc . . . . some of our client be get result of 1-40 % . target mailing start at $ 50 per thousand , and we can offer you a better price at higher quantity . complete price for target email 1000 target email address $ 50 for us to email $ 50 = $ 100 2000 target email address $ 85 for us to email $ 85 = $ 170 5000 target email address $ 250 ( no charge for us to email ) 10000 target email address and we mail $ 500 100000 target email address and we mail $ 1 , 0 1 million guarantee target email address and we mail $ 5 , 0 we offer a guarantee that our list will be target to your topic . we keep a master file on all of our client so if you order again you will never get any duplicate address from us emailing we can do the email for you and have all of the reply come directly to your email address . if you prefer to do the mail yourself , we sell email software as well . here be a few : rapid fire mail server . . . . turn your computer into a mail server $ 495 . 0 ( free demo ) stealth mass mailer . . . send out email at a rate of 100 , 0 + per hour $ 395 . 0 ( free demo ) mail pusher . . . . the newest in bulk email software ( great program ) $ 300 . 0 ( free demo ) other services offered by a . i . m . website marketing package we can place your website to the top of any give search engine . our best result come from infoseek . guarantee top 10 list . $ 300 . 0 first month $ 300 . 0 every month there after complete web marketing package ( 1 ) target email in the amount of 200 , 0 per week ( 2 ) post your website to bbs ( internet bulletin board system relate to your topic ) ( 3 ) url link to other site relate to your topic ( 3 ) newsgroup posting ( 1000 ) per month ( 4 ) banner ad to relate subject search ( 5 ) website submission to the search engine with a guarantee 1st page placement to infoseek and submission to the other top 8 as well as 400 other search engine all of the posting , submission , banner ad and url advertise will be do with your reply email address so that you have a copy of every placement and you know where your ad be on the internet . total price for complete market package $ 2500 . 0 per month if you have a business , product , or just want to get your information out ; you have no need to look any further . a . i . m . be here to help ! ! now as you can see we be a full service company , and we can help you with any of your advertise need . please call us toll free at 1-800 - 942-7913 today ! we look forward to hear from you and be happy to answer any question that you may have . once again , we give you our guarantee that this be the only piece of email that you receive from us . we wish you success now and in the future ! again our toll free number be 800-942 - 7913 our fax # 732-367 - 2229 we accept . . . visa / mastercard / american express or check by fax thank you
