Subject: the time for financial freedom is now ! !

abc super re-qualifier associate benefit consultant dear fellow entrepreneur , this letter be an urgent attempt to reach you ! we would like to hear from you within the next 24 to 48 hr . hopefully , this have reach you at an opportune time for your immediate reply ! your attention be need today as your new income can start in as little as 4 to 7 day from now ! we want you to hear first-hand about an excite breakthrough in money-make opportunity . the abc super re - qualifier . this be the fast , simple and most powerful money-maker you have hop to discover ! research have show that a person 's potential for success increase by 80 % when receive personalize instruction . we invite you to become involve in this easy , but ingenious program that involve personal instruction from our hand-pick organization member . each have the professional skill and expertise to personally guide you to your financial freedom . you can immediately utilize an exist program that accomplish the follow : 1 . generate pre-qualify prospects and send them to you . 2 . team support - live interactive conference call 3 . 7 . 9 cpm long distance and virtual office . 4 . stock and ship the product directly to your customer door . 5 . pay you daily by overnight airborne express to your front door . 6 . permit you the realistic opportunity to earn $ 24 , 0 + per month ! 7 . produce new income on a spare time , part time or full time basis . you know what wealth have alway be attain by the select few who be the first to take advantage of a new and powerful opportunity . that opportunity be here . . . . . it be the abc super re - qualifier ! the time for your financial freedom is now ! ! you must , however , be very serious and sincere about earn the income this program offer . for this reason , we have instruct our organization to devote time only to those who be genuine about improve their financial situation . are you seriously look for a real program that produce large revenue ? if so , we urge you to call our office at the 24 hr - toll free number . 1-800 - 539-5648 leave us a message and we will be notify of your response . we will promptly return your call with all the information you will need to get you on your way to make an additional income yet this week ! remember . . . . . time be everythe ! ! to your success , john , cheryl , stephanie , bill , richard , judy & debra abc market team98 1-800 - 539-5648 " this be the program other try to copy . i highly recommend abc " - paul barron , ca " i ' ve never see such a fast and simple way to make a large income " - alan loui , tx " abc be the perfect home-base business , and the money be great " - andrew kerr , ca " at last a real program . with fast money . . . thank abc - s . herman , tx " i give up on mlm , abc make me a believer again , within 2 week i have make $ 1 , 600 " - c . s
