Subject: re : ems the best software at the best $

remove instruction below . all remove request be respectfully immediately the cut edge of e-mail technology : " express mail server " from imc for only $ 275 for a limit time only ! this be the best of all e-mail program , we know we have try them all . if your read this message , that only prove it work you will not find it anywhere for less you can download a demo for free from our full service web site , complete with step by step instructional tutorial ! visit our web site at : http : / / 138 . 27 . 44 . 5 . cearth . on . ca / user / imc ( if you can't log into the site just call us , sometime the site be overload with hit ) try before you buy ! we know you will love it ! it 's a bulk e-mailer dream come true , at last ! the same software go for $ 695 . 0 ! you can also get it for $ 495 . 0 from l . s . enterprise you can call : 808-876 - 1550 and get more information or order a copy today for $ 275 ( for a limit time only ) . or fax your order / info request to : ( 808 ) 878-6869 ( include your name , phone number , e-mail address ) visit our web site at : http : / / 138 . 27 . 44 . 5 . cearth . on . ca / user / imc ( if you can't log into the site just call us , sometime the site be overload with hit ) we also have 60 million e-mail address and an excellent " remove list " service available for only $ 99 . we accept all major credit card : visa * master card * american express * discover card we can also accept check by fax ! simply fax your check to : 808-878 - 6869 so do n't hesitate , call today this offer be for a limit time only ! what be express mail server ? express mail server ( ems ) bulk e-mail software be the only thing that work . ems transform your computer into a personal mail server . with no additional hardware , ems software will give you complete control of your mailing , because the mail you send will originate from your computer and be deliver directly into the mailbox of your recipient . since the mail originate from your computer , it be no longer necessary to use your internet service provider 's mail server . when you use the previous generation stealth or cloak type program , they work by upload your mail to your provider 's mail server . they can also be program to send mail through other provider mail server without authorization ( this be consider theft of service ) . the problem be , the previous generation stealth type program upload the message faster than these mail server can process them . many time this cause a provider 's mail server to bog down and crash . obviously , this will make provider furious with you . furthermore , you may think that you be send hundred of thousand of message , unfortunately , most of it simply get filter and delete by the mail server . you be lucky to get 10 % - 20 % of that mail deliver . with ems software your computer emulate a mail server and you actually control and watch all your mail be deliver piece by piece . there be a 100 % delivery rate with this program anywhere on the internet . we do say 100 % delivery rate to any internet email address . a bold claim but it be true . this be the latest technical advance in bulk email since the advent of the stealth type program . this program verify domain and validity of email address before send mail . this dramatically reduce your bounce back undeliverable . bounce back undeliverable can sure bog down a server . you can also control where you want any bounce back mail to go . it can go to any email address you want with ems . ems can work with any dial up internet account , ( aol be not consider a dial up internet account ) an isdn line or a t - 1 or t - 3 . it run on window 95 or nt . we have not hear of any person lose a dial up account with this software . one reason bulk email be so frown upon with numerous isp 's ( internet service provider ) be people try to send as much mail as they can , as quick as they can and crash the mail server of the isp . this win happen with ems software since you do n't since you do n't use the mail server of the isp to send your mail . the program actually send the mail directly from your computer , which be now , a bona fide mail server , to the recipient mail server avoid any potential block that would prevent you from reach those on your mail list . you do not have to " forge " header or randomize anything to have 100 % of your mail deliver , although the program do allow for randomization and customize of header . you can send mail omit the " to " " from " and " reply to " portion of your header . want to send out your message in color . this be not a problem with ems . just select a font color with your mouse , and then click on a background color as well . want to make your font bold or put it into italic , just point and click . want your message center or shift leave or right , once again just point and click . unlike all of the other , ( which be all the same , but go by different name ) this software be very straightforward and easy to use . if you can log on to aol , you already know more about computer than you 'd need to use ems . we also provide technical support by phone to answer any question you may have . ems work with any window 95 or nt computer . it require no additional hardware or software . the ems software send at speed up to 80 , 0 message per hour delivered use a modest pentium and a 28 . 8 modem . rate will dramatically increase with an isdn or cable modem and of course with a t - 1 they will be even faster . if you want to take advantage of this breakthrough in bulk email technology give us a call on the number below . we do n't plan on repeat mailing for this product so take advantage of this opportunity . the cost to you be $ 275 . 0 ! money well spend if you consider that you can buy stealth ( or the many other like it . . . they all operate the same way ) for $ 400 . you may be happy with stealth if you do n't mind frequent loss of dial-up account , and lot of complaint . not get a lot of your mail deliver due to block and crash mail server delete your mail , along with the result low response rate from your mailing , all of which defeat the purpose of e-mail in the first place ! few people be aware of this new technology , so you be already leap and bound ahead of any competition . using this , you can sell anything you wish , over and over . also , consider that you may decide to offer a mail service to other . you ' ve probably get e-mail that claim they can send your advertisement e-mail for a cost of $ 200 per 100 , 0 . what most people do n't realize be that only 20 or 30 of the mail they pay these people to get send actually get deliver ! this mail service be very profitable , and use this software , you can advertise that service to millions for free ! we also have cd roms with 60 million address to help you start . with your purchase , visit our web site at : http : / / 138 . 27 . 44 . 5 . cearth . on . ca / user / imc ( if you can't log into the site just call us , sometime the site be overload with hit ) call i . m . c at : phone : ( 808 ) 876-1550 fax : ( 808 ) 878-6869 and place your order today while supplies last and we ' ll be happy to send you a demo copy and answer any question you may have . or call us and we will give you our full service web site address to be remove from our mail list or to be add to our " global remove list " simply go to : http : / / www . ctct . com all remove request be respectfully immediately
