Subject: regard the cable tv descrambler

( faq ) frequent asked question - - cable tv descrambler ( do not hit the reply button , this message be generate automatically for those interest in the product . you ' ll receive this message only once ) hello ! ! ! = ) " thank you for request more information about the cable television descrambler . i ' ve be ask so many good question that i leave unanswer in my first letter . for that reason , i have put together this question & answer letter . i apologize in advance for not be able to answer each of your question personally . the response have be overwhelm . " q : will the descrambler on fiber , tci , jarrod and satellite system ? a : the answer be yes . in respect to satellite , you just get more stuff ! q : do i need a converter box ? a : this plan work with or without a converter box . specific instruction be include in my plan for each ! q : where can i find the 75pf - 100pf variable capacitor , radio shack doesn t have it ? a : many radio shack do have it . however , you have two other option . 1st call a radio speciality supply store in your area that be list in the yellow page . 2nd you can order the capacitor from me . if need i will mail you as many as you need for the price ( s ) below . i m not try to make a profit out of it , just want to help you . i ll wrap it carefully and send it to you only if you send me a self address # 10 size pad envelope , with 64c postage affix . 1-10 75pf - 100pf variable capacitor $ 11 ea . 20 - up . $ 9 ea . q : can the cable company detect that i have the box ? a : no , the signal descramble right at the box and do not move back through the line . q : do i have to alter my exist cable system , television or vcr ? a : the answer be no . q : doe this work with my remote control ? a : the answer be no . it 's a manual kind of thing . . . but very easy . have your spouse or significant other get off the couch to do the deed ! q : can you email me the plan ? a : no , the plan come with an easy to follow picture guide . q : doe this work everywhere across the country ? a : i have friend in four state and one in england and brasil that use the same part and the same plan and they be all successful . q : is this deal guarantee ? a : ye , if you be unhappy for any reason i will refund your money . q : is this a rip off or a scam ? a : no , if it be i d charge $ 50 . 0 or more for the plan . be sure i not go to damn myself to hell by rip you off for a measly $ 12 . 0 or so . q : when i order , when will i get my stuff ? a : i mail out all order within 24 hour of receive it . . . if you supply a self addressed , stamped return envelope with 55 cents postage affixed . q : again , how much do it cost to get the instruction plan and the easy to follow diagram ? a : to order a set of the instruction send $ 12 . 0 by cash , check or money order payable to : rms enterprise send to : 50 lexington ave , suite 209 / new york city , ny 10010 . q : can you give me a list of the part again ? a : ye . 1 - radio shack minus box ( part # 270-235 ) 1 - watt resistor 2 . 2k - 2 . 4k ohm ( part # 271-1325 ) 1 - 75pf - 100pf variable capacitor ( special order ) 2 - f61a chassis-type connector ( part # 278-212 ) 12 " no . 12 solid copper wire 12 " rg59 coaxial cable q : i lose your address , could you give it to me again . a : 50 lexington ave , suite 209 / new york city , ny 10010 usa q : how can i pay for this ? a : check , money order or cash . sorry , no credit card accept . i look forward to your order . kindest personal regard , raul mendez
