Subject: call for papers : post - communist language change

call for papers the russian language and area studies program at texas tech university announces a conference on " society , language , and culture in post - communist russia , the other former republics of the soviet union , and eastern europe . " the demise of communism in the soviet union and eastern europe has ushered in a mass of changes in nearly every aspect of the lives of the people in these nations . there have been changes not only in the political system , but also in the way the people of these nations lead their everyday lives and perceive their place in the world . the fall of communism has altered the way the people in former communist countries work , shop , rest , travel , etc . these changes in day-to - day life combined with the removal of state control over literature and the press have affected the way the people of these nations write and the way they read . profound differences in language , style , and content can be found in the works of leading literary figures and in the pages of any newspaper . similar changes have taken place in other spheres of art and life . how do the people of former communist countries deal with decades of a communist cultural legacy ? do they attempt to return to their pre-communist heritage , hoping to adapt these older cultural values to a modern world ? how do these nations deal with the deluge of social , material and cultural imports from their long-time capitalist foes ? how do they cope with the collision of traditional , communist and mass culture and to what degree are elements of each present in their culture today ? the conference will be held april 2 - 4 , 1998 at texas tech university . depending upon our resources we hope to downlink the conference to other sites around the nation . we also hope to publish a volume of selected papers from the conference . papers and panels from all disciplines and areas are welcome . the deadline for proposals is jan . 15 , 1998 . please address proposals on language to erin collopy , proposals on literature to anthony qualin , and proposals on society , politics , or culture to lewis tracy at : classical and modern languages and literatures texas tech university lubbock , texas 70409-2071 proposals will also be accepted by e-mail at : prof . collopy ( language ) : pveri @ ttacs . ttu . edu prof . qualin ( literature ) : pvton @ ttacs . ttu . edu prof . tracy ( society , politics , or culture ) : pvlew @ ttacs . ttu . edu erin collopy visiting assistant professor department of classical & modern languages & literature texas tech university lubbock , tx 79409 ( 806 ) 742-3286 pveri @ ttacs . ttu . edu
