Subject: call : generative linguistics

the first announcement on - line conference " the 40 - th anniversary of generativism " 1-12 . 12 . 1997 since chomsky 's " syntactic structures " , published in 1957 , the generative view in linguistics has become widely popular . thus , this year is the 40 - th anniversary of the publication . in past forty years the generative linguistics has passed several stages of development and currently it can be considered a broad and dynamically growing theory , having multiply links both within the linguistics and with other sciences . we see the goal of the conference as helding an overall discussion on generative linguistics . the work of the conference should be organized in 4 sections : section 1 . history & methodology . section 2 . current investigations in generative linguistics in all of it 's variants ( gb - theory , minimalistic program , etc . ) . section 3 . development perspectives , unsolved problems . section 4 . interconnections with other sciences : biolinguistics , psyholinguistics , neurolinguistics , cognitive , computational , mathematical linguistics . the conference organized by the electronic journal " web journal of formal , computational & cognitive linguistics " ( http : / / www . ksu . ru / kazan / science / fccl / index . html ) . program committee chair is noam chomsky . all the materials will be put on the web site of the journal . after the conference the materials of the conference are to be published in the journal , on cd and printed as a book . submission & review procedures : paper selection and review procedures will be similar to those of a regular conference . all text must be in ascii . length of the paper is not limited . papers must be send to < generate . list @ ksu . ru > . the first 4 lines of the message should consist of your name your email address the title of the paper number of your section our time-frame is : deadline for papers : october 20 , 1997 final program announced : november 20 , 1997 participation in the on-line conference will be carried out on the list generate . list that has been created for that purpose . to subscribe to this list , send the following message to < generate . list @ ksu . ru > : subscribe generate . list yourfirstname yourlastname for example : subscribe generate . list bill johnson once you have received confirmation of your subscription , you may send messages to < generate . list @ ksu . ru > , and you will automatically receive all new messages sent to the list . a record of all received message will be maintained on a specific web page at the conference site . participants may send their comments and questions by means of the generate . list . everyone subscribed to the list will receive these messages . if you wish to leave the list , send the following message to < generate . list @ ksu . ru > : unsubscribe generate . list firstname lastname at the end of the conference participants will be automatically removed from the generate . list . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - valery solovyev editor " web journal of formal , computational & cognitive linguistics " kazan state university , dep . computer science , kazan , 420008 , russia e - mail : solovyev @ open . ksu . ras . ru - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
