Subject: baltics 1998

baltics 1998 - - - first announcement intensive language courses of latvian , lithuanian , and estonian as in the last 9 years , intensive courses of the latvian , lithuanian , and estonian languages are held in bonn / germany in 1998 . these courses , part-funded by muenster university , the federal state north - rhine - westphalia , and the robert - bosch - foundation , are designed for beginners and comprise four phases . phase 1 . participants stay in haus annaberg , a turn-of - the-century manor house overlooking bonn , between february 22 and april 2 , 1998 . classes are taugt five hours per day , five days a week . emphasis is placed on grammatical and lexical issues as well as on the development of reading , writing , and speaking skills . lectures on geographical , sociological , and political issues will be held on one weekend . phase 2 . during the university summer term , participants are expected to continue their studies in their own time , using course books and additional materials . assignments are sent out at regular intervals by the teachers . phase 3 . students stay in latvia , lithuania , or estonia for four weeks in september , 1998 . here , they study at the universities of riga , vilnius , and tartu , respectively , four hours per day , five days a week . emphasis here is on conversation skills . classes are complemented with lectures and excursions . students live with guest families throughout their stay . phase 4 . this is the final examination , again in haus annaberg , bonn . it takes place directly after the study period in the baltics . after successfully passing the exam , participants receive a certificate . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - participation is open to all students enrolled in a german university or technical college . tuition fees : dm 1 , 350 . this includes ten weeks intensive course , full board , all travel costs from bonn to the baltic states and back , examinations , and teaching materials . registration deadline : 30 / 11 / 1997 . for further information please contact : dr . magdalene huelmann institut fuer interdisziplinaere baltische studien bispinghof 3a 48143 muenster germany phone + 49 - 251 - 83 2 44 99 fax + 49 - 251 - 83 2 44 56 email tenhagw @ uni-muenster . de ( wolfgang tenhagen ) www http : / / www . uni-muenster . de / slavbaltseminar /
