Subject: new books : sociolinguistics

john benjamins publishing would like to call to your attention the following newly published books in the field of sociolinguistics : towards a social science of language . papers in honor of william labov . volume 1 : variation and change in language and society . gregory guy , crawford feagin , john baugh & deborah schiffrin ( eds . ) 1996 xviii , 436 pp . current issues in linguistic theory , 127 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 581 8 price : $ 89 . 00 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 3630 5 price : hfl . 160 , - - john benjamins publishing web site : http : / / www . benjamins . com for further information via e-mail : service @ benjamins . com this is a the first of a two-volume collection of original research papers designed to reflect the breadth and depth of the impact that william labov has had on linguistic science . four areas of ' labovian ' linguistics are addressed : first is the study of variation and change ; the papers in sections i and il of the first volume take this as their central theme , with a focus on either the social context and uses of language ( i ) or on the the internal linguistic dynamics of variation and change ( ii ) . the study of african american english , and other language varieties in the americas spoken by people of african descent and influenced by their linguistic heritage , is the subject of the papers in section iii of the first volume . the third theme is the study of discourse ; the papers in section i of the second volume develop themes in labovian linguistics that go back to labov 's work on narrative , descriptive , and therapeutic discourse . fourth is the emphasis on language use , the search for discursive , interactive , and meaningful determinants of the complexity in human communication . papers with these themes appear in section ii of the second volume . towards a social science of language volume 2 : social interaction and discourse structures gregory guy , crawford feagin , deborah schiffrin , john baugh ( eds . ) 1997 xv , 295 pp . current issues in linguistic theory , 128 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 582 6 price : us $ 75 . 00 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 3631 3 price : hfl . 130 , - - john benjamins publishing web site : http : / / www . benjamins . com for further information via e-mail : service @ benjamins . com this is a two-volume collection of original research papers designed to reflect the breadth and depth of the impact that william labov has had on linguistic science . four areas of ' labovian ' linguistics are addressed : first is the study of variation and change ; the papers in sections i and ii of the first volume take this as their central theme , with a focus on either the social context and uses of language ( i ) or on the the internal linguistic dynamics of variation and change ( ii ) . the study of african american english , and other language varieties in the americas spoken by people of african descent and influenced by their linguistic heritage , is the subject of the papers in section iii of the first volume . the third theme is the study of discourse ; the papers in section i of the second volume develop themes in labovian linguistics that go back to labov 's work on narrative , descriptive , and therapeutic discourse . fourth is the emphasis on language use , the search for discursive , interactive , and meaningful determinants of the complexity in human communication . papers with these themes appear in section ii of the second volume . contributors volume 2 : charlotte linde ; emanuel a . schegloff ; deborah schiffrin ; anne bower ; marjorie harness goodwin ; barbara m . horvath ; roger w . shuy ; e . judith weiner ; sylvie dubois & david sankoff ; john gumperz ; maria luiza braga & marco antonio de oliveira ; ellen f . prince ; john myhill ; sally boyd ; shana poplack ; benji wald . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - anthony p . schiavo jr tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / marketing fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamins north america e-mail : tony @ benjamins . com po box 27519 philadelphia pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamins web site at http : / / www . benjamins . com
