Subject: sociolinguistics symposium 12 update

sociolinguistics symposium 12 at the institute of education university of london 20 bedford way london wc1 from thursday 26th march ( mid-day ) to saturday 28th march ( mid-day ) 1998 summary programme plenaries colloquia papers in parallel sessions short ' work in progress ' reports poster presentations publishers displays social events british sign language interpretation available to ss12 participants who request this in advance . academic organising committee professor jenny cheshire , queen mary & westfield college , university of london ; professor jennifer coates , roehampton institute london ; dr penelope gardner - chloros , birkbeck college , university of london ; dr ben rampton & celia roberts , thames valley university ; euan reid , institute of education , university of london . ; professor brian street , king 's college , university of london . plenaries the following speakers have accepted invitations to give plenary presentations : titles are in some cases provisional , as they are for the colloquia listed below . professor jan blommaert ( university of antwerp / international pragmatics association ) : reconstructing the sociolinguistic image of africa : grassroots writing in shaba , congo . professor debbie cameron ( university of strathclyde , glasgow ) , good to talk ? the discourse and practice of communication skills . professor penny eckert ( stanford university ) variation , style & identity . professor susan gal ( university of chicago ) language ideologies and linguistic boundaries : the semiotics of differentiation . colloquia will include the following maintaining indigenous languages , with special reference to latin america - state planning vs grass - roots initiatives : jane freeland ( portsmouth ) & rosaleen howard - malverde ( liverpool ) contact : jane . freeland @ port . ac . uk speech representation & institutional discourse : stef slembrouck ( gent ) & mike baynham ( sydney ) contact : stef . slembrouck @ rug . ac . be the sociolinguistics of computer - mediated communication : simeon yates ( open university ) contact : s . j . yates @ open . ac . uk oral narratives across contexts & cultures shoshana blum - kulka ( hebrew university , jerusalem ) & alexandra georgakopolou ( king 's college , london ) contacts : . mskcusb @ pluto . mscc . huji . ac . il or alexandra . georgakopoulou @ kcl . ac . uk . the organisers are also discussing further ideas for colloquia on gerontolinguistics , on the sociolinguistics of sign languages , on language & multimodality , on academic literacies , on language & sexuality and on code - mixing and code - switching . in all cases we are encouraging maximum interactivity , and openness to unsolicited contributions . contact ben . rampton @ tvu . ac . uk further details on programme we intend to complete the programme-planning as far as we can by mid - november 1997 , and to let speakers have details at that time . the full programme will then be sent by post to all registered participants , along with local travel details , by january 1998 . [ the text of this posting is also available in printed form from our conference office - see below . ] our website will be set up in the next few days , and will be updated regularly with programme and participant details : http : / / www . ioe . ac . uk / ccs / ss12 call for papers the academic organising committee invites offers of papers in any area of sociolinguistics . our intention for ss12 is to accept rather fewer papers than at some recent meetings in the series . the offers should indicate clearly if they are for the regular 35 - minute slots ( ' papers ' : where presenters will be encouraged to speak for no more than c20 minutes , leaving c15 minutes for questions and discussion ) , for the shorter 15 minute slots ( ' reports ' on work in progress ) , for ' colloquia ' where preliminary contact should have been made with convenors , or for ' posters ' , where a specified display space , and if necessary time-slot will be offered . the criteria for selection will be : originality , significance , estimated contribution to conceptual development of the field , lucidity . all submissions , ( except those for the colloquia , which we need by 31st july 1997 ) should arrive at our conference office by 31st august 1997 they will be reviewed anonymously by members of the committee during september and october 1997 , with the help of colloquium convenors where appropriate . how to submit proposals send 2 copies by post ( not email , please ) : one of these only should have your name , address etc on it . your proposal should consist of the following ( i ) the title of the abstract , along with up to 5 keywords ; ( ii ) the category of proposal you are making : either a 35 minute paper for one of the parallel sessions , a 15 minute report on work in progress , a contribution to one of the colloquia , or a poster presentation : the organisers may propose that your presentation be included in a different category . ( iii ) an abstract of 200-300 words , strictly limited to one double-spaced page ; ( iv ) on one copy only all of the above , with , in addition : author 's name , postal address , telephone & fax numbers , and email address wherever available ; where a private address is given , also indicate your institutional affiliation , and your status - academic staff , student , other . all of the above should be sent , separate from any administrative or registration enquiries , to the conference officer , institute of education , 20 bedford way , london wc1h oal . please mark the outside of the envelope ' ss12 abstract ' , and send it in good time to meet our submission receipt deadlines of 31st july 1997 ( for colloquia papers ) or 31st august 1997 ( everything else ) . costs early symposium fee - 120 pounds sterling ( for bookings received by december 31 , 1997 ) standard symposium fee - 140 pounds sterling late symposium fee - 160 pounds sterling ( for bookings received after february 27 , 1998 ) student / unwaged symposium fee - 95 pounds sterling ( on production of satisfactory evidence of status , and only for bookings received by december 31 ) day symposium fees thursday 26th march - 45 pounds sterling friday 27th march - 90 pounds sterling saturday 28th march - 45 pounds sterling . late & day bookings are subject to availability of places after the standard booking period ends on february 27 1998 . scholarships a limited number of scholarships is available , on a competitive basis , for students whose papers are accepted at ss12 . these scholarships will cover the conference fee & accommodation costs for two nights in the student hall of residence , if you do n't live in london . you will need to find travel costs from other sources . submit your abstract in the usual way , but add a letter indicating that you wish to apply for a scholarship , with a supporting letter from the institution where you are studying . registration the form below is only about registration for the symposium itself , administered by the institute of education 's conference office payment of the appropriate symposium fee is obligatory , and will entitle you to all documents for the meeting ( programme , abstracts of papers , participants list ) , and to a badge giving admission to sessions , tea / coffee etc at breaks , and buffet lunches . conference registration form please complete the following , either returning it electronically to the conference office ( c . bird @ ioe . ac . uk ) , or printing it off and sending it with your sterling cheque . insert the personal details as you would like them to appear on the participants ' list & on the ss12 badge we shall prepare for you . enter one person only on each form : your title : ( mr / ms / dr / prof / . . . . . ) your family name : your other name ( s ) : your institution & departmental address : phone and fax numbers for communication ( say if work or private ) : your email address : address for correspondence if different from your institution : please reserve a conference place for me : date of booking . . . . . either for the whole meeting @ early discount rate of 120 pounds or @ standard rate of 140 pounds or @ late rate of 160 pounds or for one or two days thursday 26 / 3 @ 45 pounds friday 27 / 3 @ 90 pounds saturday 28 / 3 @ 45 pounds completed registration formson paper , and sterling cheques ( non-sterling cheques add 10 % please ) payable to ' institute of education - ss12 ' , should be sent to the conference office ( ss12 ) , institute of education , 20 bedford way , london wc1h 0al , uk . booking enquiries can be made to the conference officer there , cathy bird ( c . bird @ ioe . ac . uk ) , tel : + 44 . 171 . 612 . 6017 . . . . fax : + 44 . 171 . 612 . 6402 . she will also pass on academic enquiries . accommodation bookings can be made through hotelscene , a reservation service offering discounted accommodation with a range of hotels etc within a few minutes walk from the institute of education in the bloomsbury district of london . hotelscene information will be sent on receipt of registration forms . single room and breakfast prices will be from about 20 pounds per night in a student hall of residence , to about 100 pounds per night in a first class hotel , less per head in double rooms . euan reid culture , communication and societies institute of education university of london 20 bedford way london wc1h 0al tel : + 44 171 612 6524 / fax : + 44 171 612 6177
