Subject: varieties of english

second international conference on major varieties of english maven ii lincoln university campus , england september 9-11 , 1999 conference theme : the english language today : functions and representations plenary speakers include : nicholas coupland eric fudge salikoko mufwene the main aim of the conference is to profile the changing global presenceof english and the resulting effects on developments and changes in the language today . paper proposals are invited on all aspects of the use of major varieties of english today , in particular on the following themes : formal and functional developments and changes in english mediated uses of english international profile of english english and corporate culture english language in literature english and world communication competing target varieties fo learners text and corpus analysis etc . submission of paper proposals abstracts of paper proposals should be no more than 250 words in length , and should be double spaced . please submit three copies , one with name , affiliation and personal details ( address for correspondence , phone / fax numbers , e . mail address ) . please mention at the bottom what area or theme you believe your abstract covers ( e . g . pragmatics , media language , dialectology , political sociology etc . ) send abstracts to reach no later than dec . 15 , 1998 to : p . b . nayar faculty of arts and technology lincoln university campus brayford pool lincoln , ls6 7ts united kingdom abstracts may also be submitted as an attachment to e . mail ( one copy with all information required ) to : pnayar @ ulh . ac . uk papers should be targeted for a half-hour slot , of which at least 10 minutes will be reserved for post-presentation discussion . so the available time for actual paper presentation will be 20 minutes . notification of acceptance will be made by march 15 , 1998 lincoln university has an attractive , modern campus with excellent facilities , on a scenic location in the historic cathedral city of lincoln . lincoln is well connected by rail and road from london ( 120 miles ) manchester ( 90 miles ) and nottingham ( 40 miles ) . accommodation the registration package includes two nights in very modern , comfortable on-campus rooms with ensuite bath and self-catering facilities at very moderate prices . an additional night will cost 15 . there are also several hotels in the city within walking distance from the campus . the cost ranges from 50 to 80 per night . registration full conference package : registration + on campus accommodation for two nights + two breakfasts 150 registarion only : 120 daily registration : 45 conference dinner on 10 / 9 / 99 25 ( optional ) all rates include lunch ( es ) and refreshments on the days of attendance . there will be a late surcharge on registrations received after june 1 , 1999 all presenters will receive detailed information package . for enquries and additional information , contact : the conference secretary - maven ii faculty of arts and technology lincoln university campus brayford pool lincoln , ln6 7ts u . k . tel : + 44 1522 886251 fax : + 44 1522 886021 e . mail : pnayar @ ulh . ac . uk information and updates also available on our website at www . lincoln . ac . uk / communications
