Subject: new book : using computers in linguistics

john lawler ( university of michigan ) and helen aristar dry ( eastern michigan university ) , editors using computers in linguistics : a practical guide using computers in linguistics provides a non-technical introduction to recent developments in linguistic computing and offers specific guidance to the linguist or language professional who wishes to take advantage of them . written by expert contributors , each essay focuses on a different aspect of the interaction of computing and linguistics . features include : a glossary of technical terms , including acronyms ; chapter appendices which list and review relevant resources , such as books , software and urls ; more extensive and regularly updated appendices of resources on the world wide web : http : / / www . routledge . com / routledge / linguistics / using-comp . html table of contents john m . lawler and helen aristar dry - - introduction 1 . gary f . simons - - the nature of linguistic data and the requirements of a computing environment for linguistic research 2 . helen aristar dry and anthony rodrigues aristar - - the internet : an introduction 3 . henry rogers - - education 4 . susan hockey - - textual databases 5 . john m . lawler - - the unix language family 6 . evan l . antworthy and j . randolph valentine - - software for doing field linguistics 7 . james e . hoard - - language understanding and the emerging alignment of linguistics and natural language processing 8 . samuel bayer , john aberdeen , john burger , lynette hirschman , david palmer , and marc vilain - - theoretical and computational linguistics : toward a mutual understanding glossary bibliography conclusion 1998 / $ 22 . 99 / 320 pages 7 half tones , 54 line drawings pb 0 415 16793 0 / # d4813 [ can . pb $ 31 . 99 ] for more information on these and other titles from : routledge london * new york in north america : www . routledge-ny . com elsewhere : www . routledge . com available for review
