Subject: languaging 99 conference

call for papers languaging 99 : a conference across literature , linguistics , and writing sponsored by the university of north texas and the gsea conference dates 4 - 7 march 1999 conference location university of north texas , denton , texas conference purpose languaging 99 offers a forum for scholars from the disciplines of linguistics , literature , and writing , as well as the related disciplines of anthropology , art , communication theory , cultural studies , film , history , music , philosophy , psychology , theater , etc . , to examine " language " and " texts " both within these disciplines and across these disciplines . submission deadlines u . s . mail : postmarked 10 october 1998 email : 15 october 1998 notification : 10 december 1998 submissions we encourage submissions that examine " language " and " texts " both within and across the following : - - literature - - linguistics - - writing ( includes rhetoric / composition , technical writing , creative writing ) - - related disciplines ( includes anthropology , art , communication theory , cultural studies , film , history , music , philosophy , psychology , theater ) we welcome submissions that deal with - - cognitive linguistics - - conceptual metaphor - - linguistic analysis of literature instructions for submitting please find complete instructions for submitting - - paper abstracts - - creative submissions - - symposia proposals at our website http : / / www . unt . edu / languaging we encourage submissions from graduate students as well as professional scholars . we cannot accept submissions by fax . we accept submissions via e-mail at linglit @ unt . edu or u . s . mail at languaging 99 university of north texas department of english p . o . box 311307 denton , tx 76203-1307 contacts for more information for more conference information , please write to languaging 99 university of north texas department of english p . o . box 311307 denton , tx 76203-1307 or direct your questions to linglit @ unt . edu visit our web site at www . unt . edu / languaging
