Subject: tanlps workshop : final call for paper

tanlps workshop : final call for papers held at the european conference on machine learning ( ecml ' 98 ) , chemnitz , germany 21-24 april 1998 ( www address : http : / / www . tu-chemnitz . de / informatik / ecml98 / ) . tanlps towards adaptive nlp - driven systems : linguistic information , learning methods and applications 24 april 1998 organized by : r . basili , m . t . pazienza ( university of roma , tor vergata , italy ) since most of its applications , from syntactic to semantic , are lexicon driven , systematic and reliable acquisition on a large scale of linguistic information is the real challenge to natural language processing ( nlp ) . empiricist view on natural language processing and learning has become recently more attractive for a wider research community : computational linguistics , artificial intelligence , psychology then seemed to converge on a specific data-oriented perspective aiming to overcome the traditional knowledge acquisition bottleneck . it has been often noted that the limited attention paid by the machine learning community to text and speech data seems unjustified . it is thus more and more evident that empirical learning of natural language processing ( nlp ) can alleviate the nlp main problem by means of a variety of methods for the automatic induction of lexical knowledge . lexical knowledge is often hard to compile by hand , and even harder to port and reuse . nlp application systems still have a low impact on real world problems , mainly due to the costs related to reusability and customization of the required lexicons . in particular , changes in the domain causes changes in the lexical information required in the underlying natural language . empirical , symbolic machine learning methods can be perfectly suited for this task like automatic acquisition and adaptation of this knowledge . rule induction , symbolic approaches to clustering , lazy learning , and inductive logic programming , have been already proposed by a growing community that is entering the challenge for theoretical ( i . e . methodological ) and application purposes a variety of techniques seems to be combined in order to successfully design realistic inductive systems for text processing : the target of this research is to define methods and design principles for systems combining linguistic and lexical learning capabilities for large scale language processing tasks . this is what we mean with adaptive nlp - driven systems . within this research task , some issues can favour a synergistic process between nlp and ml areas : the access to large data sets , that are even increasing over time , due to the telematics facilities available nowadays ; extending the set of typical classes of ml problems to other hard cases ( particularly dense in the nlp processes ) ; adding inductive capabilities to nlp system for tasks related to specific applications ( i . e . information extraction ) . the proposed workshop thus aims at stimulating reasearch and discussion on the following aspects : - establishing results and evidencies on the suitability of different ml paradigms on specific levels of representation of lexical knowledge ( morphology , syntax , linguistic inference among others ) - comparison of the quantitative approaches to lexical acquisition with empirical symbolic methods - stimulating discussion on cognitive perspective of some models within a plausible architecture for language processing and learning - establishing results on the applicability of the extracted / induce knowledge within nlp systems , with respect to assessed evaluation criteria , typical of the ml and language engineering ( le ) area - case studies on adaptive nlp systems , i . e . effective nlp systems integrating linguistic inferences with inductive capabilities ( www kb at cmu , ecran , . . . ) , - critical review of existing experiences on adaptive nlp systems - establishing guidelines for an evaluation framework of adaptive nlp systems : accuracy of the linguistic process , robustness of the induction process , . . . - promote cooperation among research groups in europe and usa to exchange ideas , data and tools for design and experiment architectures for adaptive nlp systems related events a parallel workshop will be also held in the ecml conference : " text mining " organized by yves kodratoff . although close in intent and topics , the two workshops have a specific " identity " in terms of area of research , multidisciplinary aspects and contributions . so , in order to enhance the discussion and the synergistic contributions to the two independent approaches , submissions covering common problems ( i . e . adaptive data mining from textual data ) will undergo a specific review , in cooperation with the other workshop pc . in fact , a joint ( half day ) session on specific borderline topics as well as on existing ( hybrid ) systems has been planned and a subset of the accepted papers will be presented there . a particular effort will be asked to authors for stressing / enhancing synergistic aspects . the program committee will suggest guidelines to compare / generalize / extend individual contributions in this specific perspective . workshop format : the workshop is expected to cover the whole day . in the first session , apart from an invited talk , we expect to cover methodological issues . papers related to advanced research on suitability of learning paradigms for the different target lexical information will be favoured . prototypical examples in this area are studies on empirical learning of tasks like pos tagging , induction of grammatical information , symbolic learning of word sense disambiguation criteria and lexical semantic information . a panel discussion is expected to close the morning session and focus on principles of suitability for learning paradigms vs . lexical levels . in the second session we expect to stimulate participants to cover application areas , like ir and ie , on original research works that are currently under development in several research centres in europe ( sheffield , tilburg , rome tor vergata and torino universities ) . a panel discussion on the implication of the adaptive paradigm on existing and potential nlp systems will close the workshop . program committee r . basili ( university of roma , tor vergata , italy ) m . craven ( carnegie mellon university , usa ) w . daelemans ( university of tilburg , nederlands ) m . t . pazienza ( university of roma , tor vergata , italy ) l . saitta ( university of torino , italy ) c . samuelssonn ( bell labs , at&t , usa ) y . wilks ( university of sheffield , uk ) paper submission : = = = = = = = = = = = = papers should not exceed 3000 words or 6 pages . hard copy submission : three copies of the paper should be sent to : roberto basili department of computer science , systems and production university of roma , tor vergata via di tor vergata 00133 roma ( italy ) e-mail : basili @ info . utovrm . it electronic submission : electronic submission may be in either self-contained postscript or rtf formats , to basili @ info . utovrm . it for each submission - - whether hard copy or electronic - - a separate plain ascii text email message should be sent to roberto basili , containing the following information : # name : name of first author # title : title of the paper # pages : number of pages # files : name of file ( if attachments are submitted electronically ) # note : any relevant instructions # keys : keywords # email : email of the first author # abstr : abstract of the paper . . . . . . important dates : workshop final call for papers : 20 january 1998 papers due : 20 february 1998 notification of acceptance : 5 march 1998 final version due : 25 march 1998 workshop : 24 april 1998 . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - roberto basili department of computer science , systems and production university of roma , tor vergata via di tor vergata 00133 roma ( italy ) e-mail : basili @ info . utovrm . it tel : + 39 - 6 - 7259 7391 fax : + 39 - 6 - 7259 7460 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
