Subject: special volume on relevance theory

dear all , at the end of this month a special volume of our international journal " revista alicantina de estudios ingleses " ( raei ) , entirely devoted to relevance theory , will be published . here you are the contents : revista alicantina de estudios ingleses volume 11 ( 1998 ) editors : jose mateo and francisco yus contents preface dan sperber and deirdre wilson the possible place of relevance theory in a cognitive explanation of literature josi luis guijarro university of cadiz unembedded definite descriptions and relevance robert j . stainton carleton university phatic interpretations : standarisation and conventionalisation steve nicolle & billy clark middlesex university is relevance theory asocial ? mark jary university of london arousing the receiver 's involvement by flouting the communicative principles marisa dmez arroyo university of oviedo processing for relevance marjolein groefsema university of hertfordshire relevance : a thematic bibliographical list ( more than 500 references ) francisco yus university of alicante relevance and the translation of poetry marta dahlgren thorsell university of vigo relevance and modality josi luis berbeira gardsn university of cadiz communication , information , and relevance fernando garcma murga universidad autsnoma de madrid when is relevance ? on the role of salience in utterance interpretation rachel giora tel aviv university communication in relevance theory nathalie franken * universiti libre de bruxelles roots of miscommunication elena schmitt university of south carolina rhetorical questions , relevance and scales javier gutiirrez rexach the ohio state university against blurring the explicit / implicit distinction begoqa vicente cruz universidad del pams vasco uned , madrid be relevant ( relevance , translation and cross culture ) jose mateo university of alicante interpersonal communication and context accessibility in the interpretation of ironic utterances . a case study : rastell 's version of la celestina m * angeles ruiz moneva university of zaragoza those analysts willing to buy a copy of the volume should send me an e-mail , as soon as possible , providing an address where they can be contacted in july . they will be sent an order form to be returned with such details as credit card number , etc . the price of the volume will be 3000 pesetas ( roughly 26 dollars , 13 pounds ) . if you intend to attend the forthcoming workshop on relevance theory to be held in middlesex next september , you will also be able to buy the volume there , filling a form or buying a copy if available ( there will be some copies on display ) . i would be grateful if those intending to buy the volume there also sent me an e-mail letting me know , so that i can work out how many copies of the volume i should send to the workshop . i look forward to hearing from you . cordially , - dr . francisco yus university of alicante department of english studies http : / / www . ua . es / dfing apartado 99 , e-03080 alicante ( spain ) e-mail : francisco . yus @ alc . es ( home ) e-mail : francisco . yus @ ua . es ( university ) tel : ( 96 ) 5103527 ( home ) tel : ( 96 ) 5903400 - ext : 3027 ( university )
