Subject: germanic syntax workshop at esslli-98

program and call for participation for the workshop on current topics in constraint-based theories of germanic syntax saarbruecken , 17 . - 21 . august 1998 organized as part of the 10th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli ) by tibor kiss ( ibm germany ) and detmar meurers ( univ . tuebingen ) monday , 17 . august : tibor kiss ( ibm germany ) : introduction : empirical problems in the study of germanic syntax bob carpenter ( lucent technologies bell laboratories ) : german word order and ` ` linearization ' ' in type - logical grammar frank richter & manfred sailer ( univ . tuebingen ) : complementizers and finite verbs in german sentence structure tuesday , 18 . august : per anker jensen & peter skadhauge ( south . denmark business school ) : linearization and diathetic alternations in danish stefan mueller ( dfki gmbh ) : case in german - - an hpsg analysis detmar meurers ( univ . tuebingen ) : raising spirits ( and assigning them case ) wednesday , 19 . august : frank van eynde ( katholieke universiteit leuven ) : functional projections and dutch complementizers invited speaker : hans uszkoreit ( univ . des saarlandes / dfki gmbh ) : on the distribution of extraposed relative clauses thursday , 20 . august : jonas kuhn ( univ . stuttgart ) : resource sensitivity in the syntax - semantics interface and the german split np construction kordula de kuthy ( univ . des saarlandes ) : splitting pp arguments from nps - - an argument raising approach and its interaction with lexical semantics judith berman ( univ . stuttgart ) : on the syntax of correlative ` es ' and finite clauses in german - - an lfg analysis friday , 21 . august : adam bodomo ( univ . of hong kong ) : a lexical semantic analysis of ` faa ' complex predicates in norwegian lutz gunkel ( fu berlin ) causatives in german discussion the proceedings are available on-line at : http : / / www . sfs . nphil . uni-tuebingen . de / ~ dm / esslli98 /
