Subject: contrastive linguistics and translation

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - call for papers and participation symposium contrastive linguistics and translation studies empirical approaches universit catholique de louvain louvain - la - neuve , belgium 5 - 6 february , 1999 introduction over the last few years an important change has taken place in research into contrastive linguistics and translation studies . whereas previously both fields have drawn on largely introspective methodologies , most research is now conducted on large bodies of bilingual or multilingual data , a change which has had the important effect of providing the two disciplines with a much more solid empirical basis . many researchers are now working with computerised data , in many cases using specifically designed linguistic software tools to conduct automatic or semi-automatic analyses . bilingual concordancers are a case in point . research projects along these lines are becoming more widespread throughout the academic community and initial results are highly encouraging , revealing the enormous potential of computerised corpus analyses both for contrastive linguistics and translation studies . of course many researchers are still opting to use purely manual methods of analysis : indeed for many types of linguistic analysis ( semantic or discourse analysis for example ) , they will remain the only option for the foreseeable future . it is also notable that there are very few bilingual computer corpora available . for many therefore , the use of manual methods may not be a question of choice . this symposium is intended to bring together specialists in the fields of contrastive linguistics and translation studies conducting research on bilingual or multilingual corpora of any type . one important objective will be to demonstrate to what extent detailed corpus analysis can support , contradict or refine introspective contrastive analyses . another key aim is to examine the strengths and weaknesses of manual and automatic methods of data analysis . and lastly , the meeting will provide a valuable opportunity to exchange and share data , a step on the way to setting up an international multilingual databank available to everyone working in the field . symposium topics below is a non-exhaustive list of subject areas which we hope to address during the symposium : - contrastive lexicology ( in particular , contrastive phraseology ) - bilingual / multilingual lexicography - contrastive semantics - contrastive syntax - contrastive pragmatics - compiling and exploiting bilingual / multilingual computerised corpora - software tools for the analysis of bilingual corpora ( bilingual concordancing , automatic alignment , multilingual part-of - speech tagging , etc . ) - bilingual corpora and automatic / computer-aided translation languages english and french will be the two official symposium languages , with most papers given in english . symposium venue the symposium will take place in louvain - la - neuve , an entirely pedestrian university campus which , with its cafes , restaurants , shops , sports centre , cinema and theatre , offers all the advantages of a real town . 20 minutes away from brussels , it is easy to reach by car , train and plane , brussels national airport being within very easy reach . deadline for abstracts anyone wishing to present a paper at the symposium should send a one page abstract in electronic format ( preferably a word attachment ) to sylviane granger ( address below ) by 16 october 1998 at the latest . notification of acceptance will be given by 6 november 1998 . payment the cost of the symposium is as follows : - before 30 november 1998 : 2500 belgian francs - after 30 november 1998 : 3500 belgian francs this includes the symposium fee , the book of abstracts , coffee breaks and lunch on both days . accommodation two types of accommodation are on offer : - chambre la rsidence universitaire ( le relais , rue de la gare 6 , 1348 louvain - la - neuve ) : 1600 fb par nuit , petit djeuner inclus ; - chambre l ' htel de lauzelle ( avenue de lauzelle 61 , 1348 louvain - la - neuve ) : 2600 fb par nuit , petit djeuner inclus ( chambre simple ) . note : only thirty rooms are available at the university guesthouse and places will be allocated on a strictly first-come first-served basis . scientific committee bengt altenberg ( university of lund , sweden ) ludo beheydt ( universit catholique de louvain , belgium ) hlne chuquet ( university of poitiers , france ) jean - pierre colson ( institut libre marie - haps brussels & universit catholique de louvain , belgium ) thierry fontenelle ( european commission translation service , luxembourg ) sylviane granger ( universit catholique de louvain , belgium ) jacques lerot ( universit catholique de louvain , belgium ) raphal salkie ( university of brighton , uk ) organizing committee sylviane granger ( universit catholique de louvain ) jacques lerot ( universit catholique de louvain ) andr hantson ( facults universitaires notre - dame de la paix namur ) michel kefer ( universit de lige ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - pre-registration form please return to the following address : professor sylviane granger , universit catholique de louvain , college erasme , place blaise pascal 1 , b-1348 louvain - la - neuve , belgium . telephone : + 32 10474947 ; ( secretary ) + 3210474940 fax : + 32 10474942 email : granger @ lige . ucl . ac . be - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - contrastive linguistics and translation studies empirical approaches universit catholique de louvain , louvain - la - neuve ( belgium ) 5 - 6 february 1999 surname : first name : institution : address : telephone : fax : e-mail : i wish to take part in the ' contrastive linguistics and translation studies ' symposium which will take place in louvain - la - neuve , 5 - 6th february , 1999 . i wish to take part in the symposium without giving a paper : yes / no i wish to give a paper / poster : yes / no provisional title of the paper / poster : i wish to demonstrate software at the symposium : yes / no provisional title of the demonstration : i wish to reserve accommodation : yes / no i would like to reserve a room in the university guesthouse , le relais , for 4th february / 5th february / 6th february / 7th february , making a total of . . . . . . nights . i would like to reserve a room in the hotel de lauzelle for 4th february / 5th february / 6th february / 7th february , making a total of . . . . . . nights . i would like to put my name down for the dinner on friday evening ( c . 1000 fb ) : yes / no on receipt of your application , you will be sent an itemized invoice .
