Subject: program : spanish in contact

7th unm conference on ibero - american culture and society : " spanish and portuguese in contact with other languages " and 16th conference on spanish in the united states february 12-14 , 1998 university of new mexico albuquerque , new mexico commemorating the 400th anniversary of the founding of the first spanish settlement in new mexico in 1598 information on lodging and registration is available on the web : http : / / www . unm . edu / ~ spanish preliminary program thursday , february 12 1 : 30 - 3 : 30 i - a . codeswitching robin m . fetters ( u new mexico ) , " code switching vs . borrowing in northern new mexico / southern colorado spanish " ana teresa perez - leroux & erin o'rourke ( pennsylvania st u ) , " processing of intrasentential code-switching in english and spanish bilinguals : grammatical constraints versus base language effects " inma mun ~ oa ( u illinois - urbana / champaign ) , " codeswitching in bilingual conversation : evidence from basque - spanish bilinguals " sara rodriguez ( suny - buffalo ) , " social implications for code - switching in a sample of 12 puerto rican speakers living in the united states " 1 : 30 - 3 : 30 i - b . contact situations leopoldina maria s . araujo ( belem , brazil ) , " portugues de contato de um povo indigena da amazonia brasileira " jurgen heye ( pontificia u catolica - rio de janeiro ) , " immigrant language contacts with brazilian portuguese : the case of brasildeutsch " susana v . rivera - mills ( northern arizona u ) , " language shift in a northern california community " virginia zavala ( georgetown u ) , " a case of shift-induced substratum interference : the andean spanish from el valle del mantaro , peru " 3 : 45 - 5 : 45 ii - a . texts and literacy devin jenkins ( u new mexico ) , " using the internet to study language shift : examples from electronic texts of bilingual dominicans in the united states " arturo fernandez - gibert ( u new mexico ) , " la voz del pueblo : el espan ~ ol en la prensa nuevomexicana en los an ~ os previos a la estatalidad ( 1890-1912 ) " juan a . trujillo ( oregon st u ) , " socioeconomic identity and linguistic borrowing in pre-statehood new mexico legal texts " sandra l . pucci ( u wisconsin - milwaukee ) , " spanish language literacy maintenance : central americans in los angeles " 3 : 45 - 5 : 45 ii - b . syntactic variation kareen gervasi ( u southern california ) , " relativization in the spanish of bilingual speakers from the southwest " e . atienza , p . battaner , a . bel , l . borras , lourdes diaz , c . hernandez , e . hurtado , c . lopez , r . martinez , & s . torner ( u pompeu fabra ) , " lenguas peninsulares en contacto : castellano y catalan en la produccion de estudiantes universitarios bilingues " j . clancy clements ( indiana u ) , " l2 word order acquisition in a contact situation " liliana paredes ( u north carolina - greensboro ) , " the proficiency continuum in quechua - spanish bilingual speakers : an analysis of the verbal clitic system " 7 : 00 - 9 : 00 reception at hilton hotel friday , february 13 8 : 45-10 : 15 iii - a . grammatical variation rob smead ( brigham young u ) , " on the assignment of gender to chicano anglicisms : processes and results " marta fairclough ( u houston ) , " modal expressions in a contact situation : _ deber de _ vs . _ tener que _ in the spanish spoken in houston " michelle f . ramos - pellicia ( ohio st u ) , " gerund constructions in the spanish of puerto rico " 8 : 45-10 : 15 iii - b . language policy and planning shaw n . gynan ( western washington u ) , " sociolinguistic dimensions of guarani - spanish contact and paraguayan language policy in the context of inter - american human rights " earl rees ( portland st u ) , " the catalan linguistic normalization law : the implementation polemic " eduardo hernandez chavez ( u new mexico ) , " los derechos linguisticos en nuevo mexico : el llamado bilinguismo oficial estatal " 10 : 30-12 : 00 iv - a . language contact and change marilia de nazare ferreira ( belem , brazil ) , " algumas reflexo ~ es sobro o portugues falado pelos mebengnokren da aldeia gorotire no sul do estado do para , amazonia , brasil " nicole maier ( u central florida ) , " linguistic strategies in cuban and puerto rican spanish as determined by contact settings " luis a . ortiz lopez ( u puerto rico - mayaguez ) , " el sistema verbal del espan ~ ol haitiano en cuba : implicaciones para las lenguas en contacto en el caribe " 10 : 30-12 : 00 iv - b . syntax-semantics martha elizabeth ruiz - garcia ( u new mexico ) , " la funcionalidad de la doble negacion chocoana y su estado sociolinguistico actual " maria jose gonzalez ( u illinois - urbana / champaign ) , " preverbal double negation as a means for emphasis " anna maria escobar ( u illinois - urbana / champaign ) , " semantic and pragmatic uses of the spanish diminutive in spanish in contact with quechua " 1 : 30 - 3 : 00 v - a . lexical variation in us spanish eva mendieta ( indiana u northwest ) & isabel molina ( u alcala ) , " lexical characterization of the spanish spoken in northwest indiana " arnulfo g . ramirez ( louisiana st u ) , " lexical characteristics of southwest spanish and the atlas linguistico de hispanoamerica " ana emilia leon ( u texas - permian basin ) , " spanish diastratic and diatopic morpho-lexical variation in midland - odessa , texas " 1 : 30 - 3 : 00 v - b . communicative strategies rainer enrique hamel ( u autonoma metropolitana ) , " fronteras linguisticas y estrategias discursivas en la interaccion bilingue espan ~ ol-hn ~ ahn ~ u en mexico " lenora a . timm ( u california - davis ) , " ' a binary phenomenon ' : the pragmatics of spanish - english code-switching in chicano / a poetry " maria dolores gonzales velasquez ( u new mexico ) , " deshaciendo enredos : language and power imbalances in mediation " 3 : 15 - 5 : 15 vi - a . phonological variation susana de los heros ( u rhode island ) , " the influence of quechua in the assibilation of ( r ) in the spanish spoken in cusco " sarah j . youngblood ( college of wooster ) , " spirantization in the spanish of winesburg , ohio " jerry r . craddock ( u california - berkeley ) , " the resolution of vocalic hiatus between words in new mexican spanish " fernanda ferreira & rena torres cacoullos ( u new mexico ) , " la labiodental sonora en nuevo mexico : ? influencia del ingles o rasgo dialectal ? " 3 : 15 - 5 : 15 vi - b . discourse madeline maxwell ( u texas - austin ) , " when the interpreter is also a conversational partner " carmen silva - corvalan ( u southern california ) , " coping with two languages from birth " lourdes torres ( u kentucky ) , " bilingual discourse marking in new york puerto rican speech " diane ringer uber ( college of wooster ) , " ' dealing ' with bilingualism : business language in puerto rico " 5 : 30 - 6 : 30 plenary speaker carol a . klee ( u minnesota ) , " historical perspectives on spanish - quechua language contact in peru " saturday , february 14 8 : 45-10 : 45 vii - a . panel : " subject pronouns in five dialects of spanish in new york city : preliminary analyses of social , linguistic , semantic , and discourse variables " co - chairs and discussants : ana celia zentella ( hunter college ) & ricardo otheguy ( city u new york ) nydia flores & jeannette toro ( city u new york ) , " the persistence of dialect features under conditions of leveling and contact " atsuko miyajima ( city u new york ) , " el espan ~ ol en nueva york : aparicion del pronombre personal ( sujeto ) analizado desde el punto de vista del sentido del verbo " silvia rivero ( city u new york ) , " the alternation of verbal [ s ] / [ h ] / 0 and the use of pronouns by spanish speakers in new york city " jocelyn solis ( city u new york ) , " power relations as predictive factors for pronoun expression in the discourse of new york spanish speakers " 8 : 45-10 : 45 vii - b . lexicons in contact veronica grondona ( u pittsburgh ) , " language contact and the influence of spanish on mocovi " asun martinez - arbelaiz ( michigan st u ) , " basque lexical items in journalist spanish : on their motivation and significance " holly wilson ( u new mexico ) , " the effects of spanish on the lexicon and syntax of english - spanish bilinguals " 11 : 00-12 : 00 plenary speaker ana roca ( florida international u ) , " planning for the future of spanish in the united states " 1 : 30 - 3 : 00 viii - a . theory and method maryellen garcia ( u texas - san antonio ) , " _ yo todo el tiempo fue a la escuela _ : language fluency and fuzzy semantics " ricardo otheguy ( city u new york ) , " an appraisal of the theoretical underpinnings of recent major works on spanish in the u . s . " xoan paulo rodriguez - yan ~ ez ( u vigo ) , " el contraste entre los estudios macro y los estudios microsociolinguisticos en el caso del contacto gallego-espan ~ ol : algunas ensen ~ anzas teoricas y metodologicas " 1 : 30 - 3 : 00 viii - b . applied issues in new mexico mary fanelli ayala ( eastern new mexico u ) , " clash or fusion ? the challenges of teaching spanish to the ' native speaker ' in new mexico " ysaura bernal - enriquez ( u new mexico ) , " spanish language loss in _ la nueva mexico _ " daniel villa ( new mexico st u ) , " the instrumentality of spanish in a u . s . - mexico border region " 3 : 15 - 5 : 15 ix - a . attitudes and use gabriela alfaraz ( michigan st u ) , " dialect contact in miami , florida : the attitudes of cubans toward other spanish varieties " parastoo anita mesri ( u california - los angeles ) , " the role of spanish in mexicana / o , chicana / o , latina / o communities in the u . s . : a unifying bond , a tie to the homeland , a way to resist assimilation " caryn c . connelly ( u minnesota ) , " patterns of language choice and language preference among mexican teens : preliminary findings for phoenix , arizona " patricia macgregor - mendoza ( new mexico st u ) , " spanish use and attitudes among youths in two mexican communities " 3 : 15 - 5 : 15 ix - b . pronominal variation jennifer austin ( cornell u ) , " _ leismo _ in the basque of basque - spanish bilinguals " jinny k . choi ( georgetown u ) , " a syntactic feature in paraguayan spanish : [ - person ] object clitic drop " liliana sanchez ( carnegie mellon u ) , " unmarkedness : the source of null definite objects in contact spanish " teresa satterfield ( u michigan ) , " patterns of pronominal variability in bilingual speech " 7 : 00 conference dinner 9 : 00 gran baile de despedida
