Subject: esslli ' 98 student session - 2nd cfp

the esslli ' 98 student session august 17-28 , 1998 , saarbruecken , germany deadline : february 15th , 1998 http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / esslli / we are pleased to announce the student session of the 10th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli ' 98 ) organized by dfki and the university of saarbruecken , germany . and taking place at the university of saarbruecken in august 17-28 , 1998 . we welcome submissions of papers for presentation at the esslli ' 98 student session and to appear in the proceedings . purpose : this is going to be the third esslli student session and as before , it will provide an opportunity for esslli participants who are students to present their own work in progress and get valuable feedback from other researchers and fellow-students . presentation of creative and innovative ideas is encouraged . the esslli ' 98 student session welcomes submissions from students at any level , that is , from undergraduates ( before completion of master degree ) as well as postgraduates ( before completion of phd degree ) . note also that all authors of esslli ' 98 papers have to be students , papers co-authored by non-students cannot be accepted . as in the previous years , the esslli ' 98 student session will consist of paper presentations . the esslli ' 98 student session has its own timeslot in the esslli ' 98 schedule : 60 minutes every day for two weeks , provided that a sufficient number of good quality papers is accepted . each presentation will last 30 minutes ( including 10 minutes of discussion ) . requirements : the student session papers should describe original , unpublished work , completed or in progress that demonstrates insight , creativity , and promise . no previously published papers should be submitted . all topics within the usual six esslli subject areas are of interest , without further restrictions . the areas are as follows : logic , linguistics , computation , logic & linguistics , logic & computation , and linguistics & computation . the accepted papers will be published in the esslli ' 98 student session proceedings , which will be made available along with the readers for the esslli ' 98 courses . format of submission : student authors should submit an anonymous extended abstract headed by the paper title , not to exceed 4 pages of length exclusive of references and a separate identification page ( see below ) . note that the length of the full papers will not be allowed to exceed 10 pages . since reviewing will be " blind " , the body of the abstract should omit author names and addresses . furthermore , self-references that reveal the authors ' identity ( e . g . , ` ` we previously showed ( smith , 1991 ) . . . ' ' ) should be avoided . instead , use references like ` ` smith ( 1991 ) previously showed . . . ' ' . to identify each paper , a separate identification page should be supplied containing the paper 's title , the name ( s ) of the author ( s ) , the author ( s ) ' affiliation ( s ) and complete addresse ( s ) a short ( 5 line ) summary and a specification of the subject area into which the paper belongs . the subject areas considered are : logic , linguistics , computation , logic & linguistics , logic & computation , and linguistics & computation . media of submission and formatting requirements : the student authors should submit their papers electronically to : korbay @ ufal . mff . cuni . cz for any kind of submission a plain ascii text version of the identification page should be sent separately by email , using the following format : title : < title > author : < name of first author > address : < affiliation and address of first author > . . . author : < name of last author > address : < affiliation and address of last author > short summary ( 5 lines ) : < summary > subject area ( one of ) : [ logic | linguistics | computation | logic&linguistics | logic&computation | linguistics&computation ] please always submit the identification page in a separate message . the submissions should be in one of the following formats : - self-contained latex source ( the most encouraged ) - postscript - ascii text esslli ' 98 student session information : in order to present a paper at the esslli ' 98 student session , every student author has to register as a participant at esslli ' 98 . however , authors of accepted papers will be eligible for a reduced registration fee . for all information concerning esslli ' 98 , please consult the esslli ' 98 web site : http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / esslli / if you have specific questions about the student session please contact the chair . important dates : deadline for submissions : february 15 , 1998 notifications : april 15 , 1998 final version due : may 15 , 1998 esslli ' 98 student session : august 17-28 , 1998 program comittee for the esslli ' 98 student session : ivana kruijff - korbayova ( chair ) korbay @ ufal . mff . cuni . cz ufal mff uk malostranske nam . 25 118 35 praha 1 czech republic tel : ( + 420 - 2 ) 2191 4288 fax : ( + 420 - 2 ) 2191 4309 area co-chairs : language and computation : kordula de kuthy ( university of saarbruecken ) computation : michal soch ( czech technical university ) logic : carlos areces ( university of warwick ) language : berthold crysmann ( university of saarbruecken ) logic & computation : jaime ramos ( technical university of lisabon ) logic and language : - to be confirmed
