Subject: tls 1997 conference procedings

the proceedings of the 1997 conference of the texas linguistics society ( the syntax and semantics of predication ) is now available for purchase . the cost for the volume is $ 12 . 00 . please make checks payable to the university of texas at austin . please make payment in us dollars . postage and handling have been included in the price shown . send payment to : texas linguistic forum department of linguistics the university of texas at austin austin , tx 78712-1196 a table of contents is provided below : interfacing syntax and semantics : the predication of possession , nancy mae antrium predicative structures of nominals in hpsg , toni badia subjects , predicates , and floating quantifiers , ralph c . blight a binary analysis of resultatives , john bowers light verb constructions , trp , and multiple feature checking theory , eun cho predication times in st ' at ' imcets salish , hamida demirdache the role of predication in the licensing of purposive adjuncts , manuel espanol - echevarria a modality view of predicate selection in small clauses , fransisco gonzalvez garcia thetic / categorical predication and the semantics of existential quantifiers , javier gutierrez - rexach optional scrambling and predication , helen de hoop on the so - called adjunct predicates in korean , youngjun jang obligatory adjuncts , yunsun jung np predicates , dalina kallulli a crosslinguistic perspective on resultative formation , soowon kim and joan maling french relative clauses as secondary predicates , knud lambrecht strange resultatives in german : new evidence for a semantic treatment , anke ludeling the structure of cleft and pseudo - cleft sentences , andre meinunger verbal negation and complex predicate formation in polish , adam przepiorkowski and anna kupsc the role of case checking in encoding semantic presuppositions , lisa reed predicational ' be ' , susan rothstein two pronominal copulas and the syntax of non - verbal predication in hebrew , ivy sichel resultative predicates and control , stephen wechsler the asymmetry of predication , edwin williams - ralph c . blight department of linguistics , the university of texas at austin http : / / ccwf . cc . utexas . edu / ~ gizzmo / index . html
