Subject: major varieties of english

second international conference on major varieties of english maven ii lincoln university campus , england september 9-11 , 1999 conference theme : the english language today : functions and representations plenary speakers include : nicholas coupland ( university of wales , cardiff ) eric fudge ( university of reading ) salikoko mufwene ( university of chicago ) paper proposals are invited on all aspects of the use of major varieties of english today , in particular on the following themes : formal and functional developments and changes in english mediated uses of english international profile of english english and corporate culture english language in literature english and world communication competing target varieties fo learners text and corpus analysis etc . submission of paper proposals abstracts of paper proposals should be no more than 250 words in length , and should be double spaced . please submit three copies , one with name , affiliation and personal details ( address for correspondence , phone / fax numbers , e . mail address ) . please mention at the bottom what area or theme you believe your abstract covers ( e . g . pragmatics , media language , dialectology , political sociology etc . ) send abstracts to reach no later than dec . 15 , 1998 to : p . b . nayar faculty of arts and technology lincoln university campus brayford pool lincoln , ls6 7ts united kingdom abstracts may also be submitted as an attachment to e . mail ( one copy with all information required ) to : pnayar @ ulh . ac . uk registration full conference package : registration + on campus accommodation for two nights + two breakfasts 150 registarion only : 120 daily registration : 45 conference dinner on 10 / 9 / 99 25 ( optional ) all rates include lunch ( es ) and refreshments on the days of attendance . there will be a late surcharge on registrations received after june 1 , 1999 all presenters will receive detailed information package . for enquries and additional information , contact : the conference secretary - maven ii faculty of arts and technology lincoln university campus brayford pool lincoln , ln6 7ts u . k . tel : + 44 1522 886251 fax : + 44 1522 886021 e . mail : pnayar @ ulh . ac . uk information and updates also available on our website at www . lincoln . ac . uk / communications
