Subject: spanish in the united states conference

preliminary announcement and call for papers : 17th conference on spanish in the united states florida international university miami , florida march 11 , 12 , 13 , 1999 keynote speakers : to be announced in fall 1998 abstracts for twenty-minute papers are invited on the following general topics related to spanish in the united states : language policy and planning , language variation , discourse analysis , language maintenance and shift , language attitudes , testing , heritage language education , language in public life . persons interested in presenting a paper at the conference are requested to submit five copies of a one-page abstract of the paper . the abstract should be accompanied by a separate page stating the title of the paper , your name , affiliation , institutional address , your telephone numbers , including fax , and e-mail , and the address at which you wish to receive a notification concerning acceptance of the paper . please do not identify yourself on the abstract itself . abstracts must be received by october 19 , 1998 . queries and abstracts should be addressed to : dr . ana roca , conference chair department of modern languages deuxieme maison 498a florida international university university park miami , fl 33199 305-348 - 2046 rocaa @ fiu . edu ( please post and share ) hotel information : full information will be posted in fall 1998 in the linguist list . we have made definite arrangements with the david william hotel and the biltmore hotel ( in coral gables ) . conference participants can stay at the david william hotel at a negotiated rate of $ 99 / night and will have all privileges at the biltmore hotel ( a luxury hotel in a historic building ) because both hotels are under the same management and coorporation now . the biltmore is only about four or five blocks away and you can walk or take the hotel shuttle there . the conference will be held at the biltmore and at florida international university . if you wish to make early reservations , call the david william hotel at 305-445 - 7821 and mention that it is for fiu 's " spanish in the u . s . " conference march 11-13 , 1999 at the agreed upon rate . space is limited . note : queries will be answered as soon as possible after august 16 , 1998 and a conference registration form will be posted soon and can also be mailed to you as early as fall 1998 at the start of the new academic year .
