Subject: perceiving and performing gender

perceiving and performing gender 4th symposium on gender research at kiel university , germany november 12-14 , 1998 the conference focuses on the central question : how do social perceptions alongside the behaviour of individuals contribute to the construction of gender ? - how do we interpret and assess women and men ? - which properties and modes of behaviour do we ascribe to each gender ? - are gender differences the result of a gendered behaviour , or do they base themselves on gender-stereotyped expectations ? this symposium opens the possibility of discussing these and other questions in a cross-disciplinary and international perspective . keynote speakers prof . dr . jutta allmendinger institut fur soziologie ludwig - maximilian - universitat munchen prof . dr . mahzarin r . banaji department of psychology yale university prof . dr . j . richard hackman department of psychology harvard university prof . dr . thomas laqueur department of history university of california , berkeley prof . dr . donald g . mackay department of psychology university of california , los angeles prof . dr . anthony mulac department of communication university of california , santa barbara prof . dr . rosanne stone advanced communication technologies laboratory department of radio - tv - film the university of texas call for papers in addition to the presentations by the keynote speakers , we are accepting papers on further topics . interested researchers should send us a brief abstract of their proposed presentation . this abstract should be written in either english or german and be no longer than one typewritten page . of those papers accepted to the symposium , several will be chosen for publication in a collection of highlights from the conference . language the symposium will be conducted in both english and german . presentations and comments can be formulated and contributed in either language . deadlines proposal abstracts must be received by zif no later than 30 april 1998 . registration deadline for the symposium is 1 october 1998 . fees registration costs dm 120 . this price is reduced to dm 30 for students and umemployed academics . for registration and further information please contact : susanne oelkers , m . a . zif centre for interdisciplinary research on women and gender christian albrecht university tel . : ( german code ) ( 0 ) 431 57949 51 olshausenstr . 40 fax : ( german code ) ( 0 ) 57949 50 d-24098 kiel email : < oelkers @ zif . uni-kiel . de > germany
