Subject: console - 7

final call for papers ! ! ! console 7 the seventh meeting of the student organisation of linguistics in europe ( console ) will be held at the university of bergen , norway , from 9 to 11 december 1998 . speakers will get free accomodation ! sole aims at providing students of generative linguistics with a possibility of gaining international experience and a publication forum of their own . furthermore , sole strives to enhance contacts and cooperation between students of generative linguistics in europe and around the world . papers are solicited from students in the field of generative linguistics , more specifically in , but not limited to , phonology , morphology , semantics , sign language , language acquisition and syntax . submissions may be sent either by regular mail or e-mail . if regular mail is used , please send five copies , of which four should be anonymous and one should contain your name , affiliation , address and e-mail address . abstracts should be set in at least 10 point and must not exceed two pages , including references , diagrams , and examples . please send abstracts to : console 7 department of linguistics and comparative literature section for linguistic studies sydnesplass 7 n-5007 bergen norway e - mail submissions must be text only ( ascii format ) . abstracts submitted in this way should not exceed 1300 words , including references , diagrams , and examples , and they may be sent to : abstracts @ babel . ling . uib . no the deadline for submission is 1 august , 1998 ( regardless of mode of submission ) . abstracts received after 1 august will not be considered . submissions by fax will not be accepted . questions regarding submissions and the conference in general can be addressed to the local organisers at the following e-mail address or fax number : e - mail : console7 @ babel . ling . uib . no fax : + 47-55 58 93 54 or to the sole board at the following e-mail address : sole @ rullet . leidenuniv . nl information regarding the conference can be found at the following website : http : / / www . ling . uib . no / console - 7 local organisers : sole board : oystein alexander vangsnes michael redford dagmar bendt tina cambier - langeveld inger marie berntzen aniko liptak torodd kinn martha thunes
