Subject: lacl98 ( logical aspects of computational ling 98 )

logical aspects of computational linguistics ( lacl98 ) third ( final ) call for papers deadline extension : august 7 , 1998 conference time and place : 14-16 december 1998 projet calligramme ( loria ) universite pierre mendes - france , grenoble 2 france theme the lacl conferences provide a platform for the presentation of new and original research on the use of logical techniques , both model-theoretic and proof-theoretic , in the field of computational linguistics . the first two editions of the conference were held in nancy ( france ) , in september 1996 and 1997 . proceedings of these events are published in the springer lecture notes in artificial intelligence series . see http : / / www . loria . fr / ~ retore / leslacl . html for more information . from lacl98 on , the conference will operate on a bi-annual schedule , so as to optimize the alternation with related events . invited speakers makoto kanazawa ( chiba ) [ * ] per martin - lof ( stockholm ) fernando pereira ( att research ) [ * ] [ * ] confirmed topics of interest we hereby invite computational linguists , logicians , computer scientists and / or philosophers to submit papers describing original and unpublished research related to the conference theme . topics of interest include , but are not limited to : - logical foundations of computational grammar formalisms ; - model-theoretic and proof-theoretic methods in linguistics ; - constraint-based and resource-sensitive approaches to grammatical analysis ; - linguistic applications of linear logic , type theory ; - - computational complexity of type logics and feature logics ; - - natural-language interfaces for automated theorem provers submissions the lacl98 conference has an electronic refereeing procedure . submissions consist of two parts : - a page containing the title of the paper , the name and affiliation of the author ( s ) , e-mail and postal address ( es ) . format : plain ascii . - an abstract of maximally 4 pages ( including figures and references ) , containing the title of the contribution , but not the name of the author ( s ) . format : plain ascii , or ( preferably ) postscript , dvi , pdf ( in a unix compatible mode , if encoded ) . deadline extension : submissions have to be sent to the following e-mail address , before august 7 , 1998 : e-mail : lacl98 @ let . ruu . nl the notifications of acceptance will be sent out the first week of september . the collection of the selected abstracts will be available at the conference . after the conference , authors are invited to submit a full paper ( up to 20 pages ) for publication . the final papers will appear in a special volume of the springer - verlag series of lecture notes in computer science ( lncs / lnai ) . important dates august 7 , 1998 : 4 - page abstract due 1st week of september 1998 : notification of acceptance 1st week of november 1998 : final 4 - page abstract due december 14-16 , 1998 : conference dates program commitee chair : michael moortgat ( ots , utrecht ) johan van benthem ( illc , amsterdam ) gosse bouma ( groningen ) vijay shanker ( delaware ) erhard hinrichs ( tuebingen ) mary dalrymple ( xerox parc ) ruy de queiroz ( ufpe , sao paolo ) francois lamarche ( inria nancy ) christian retore ( inria rennes ) uwe reyle ( ims stuttgart ) organising commitee chair : alain lecomte ( grenoble ) denis vernant ( pl&c ) , jean - michel adam ( imss ) , claude jeannin ( ufr shs ) , catherine finkel ( upmf ) addresses for information related to the conference organisation , contact : alain lecomte departement imss universite pierre mendes - france bp 47 x 38040 grenoble cedex 9 france tel : + 33 4 76 82 78 52 fax : + 33 4 76 82 56 65 e-mail : alain . lecomte @ upmf-grenoble . fr http : / / www-bshm . upmf-grenoble . fr / ~ alecomte for information related to the conference program and submission procedure , contact : michael moortgat utrecht institute of linguistics ots trans 10 3512 jk utrecht the netherlands tel : + 31 30 2536043 fax : + 31 30 2536406 e-mail : michael . moortgat @ let . ruu . nl http : / / www-uilots . let . ruu . nl / user / uilots / moortgat / home . html conference url the lacl98 homepage will be regularly updated with conference information : http : / / www-bshm . upmf-grenoble . fr / lacl98
