Subject: cimca ' 99

final call for paper international conference on computational intelligence for modelling , control and automation cimca ' 99 17-19 february 1999 vienna - austria http : / / www-gscit . fcit . monash . edu . au / conferences / cimca99 14 august 1998 deadline for submission of extended abstract honorary chair : lotfi a . zadeh , university of california , usa general chair : masoud mohammadian , monash university ( australia ) second call for papers the international conference on computational intelligence for modelling , control and automation will be held in vienna , austria on 17-19 february 1999 . the conference provides a medium for the exchange of ideas between theoreticians and practitioners to address the important issue in computational intelligence , modelling , control and automation . the conference will consist of both plenary sessions and contributory sessions , focusing on theory , implementation and applications of computational intelligence techniques to modelling , control and automation . for contributory sessions , extended abstract papers are being solicited . several well-known keynote speakers will address the conference . topics include , but are not limited to , the following area : modern and advanced control strategies : neural networks control , fuzzy logic control , genetic algorithms & evolutionary control , model - predictive control , adaptive and optimal control , intelligent control systems , robotics and automation , fault diagnosis , intelligent agents , industrial automations hybrid systems : fuzzy evolutionary systems , fuzzy expert systems , fuzzy neural systems , neural genetic systems , neural - fuzzy - genetic systems , hybrid systems for optimisation data analysis , prediction and model identification : signal processing , prediction & time series analysis , system identification , data fusion and data mining , knowledge discovery , intelligent information systems , image processing , image understanding , parallel computing applications in identification & control , pattern recognition , clustering , classification decision making and information retrieval : case - based reasoning , decision analysis , intelligent databases & information retrieval , dynamic systems modelling , decision support systems , multi - criteria decision making , qualitative and approximate - reasoning modelling paper submission papers will be selected based on their originality , significance , correctness , and clarity of presentation . four copies of extended abstract ( 500-800 word ) should be submitted to the following address : cimca ' 99 secretariat school of computing & information technology monash university gippsland campus switchback rd , churchill 3842 victoria , australia extended abstract should present original work , which has not been published or being reviewed for other conferences . important dates 14 august 1998 deadline for submission of extended abstract 21 september 1998 notification of acceptance 23 november1998 deadline for camera-ready copies of accepted papers 17-19 february 1999 conference sessions special sessions and tutorials special sessions and tutorials will be organised at the conference . the conference is calling for special sessions and tutorial proposals . all proposals should be sent to the conference chair before november 23rd , 1998 . cimca ' 99 will also include a special poster session devoted to recent work and work-in - progress . abstracts are solicited for this session ( 3 pages limit ) may be submitted up to 30 days before the conference date . invited sessions keynote speakers from academia and industry will be addressing the main issues of the conference . international program committee : h . adeli , the ohio state university , usa b . kosko , university of southern california , usa a . kandel , university of south florida , usa t . fukuda , nagoya university , japan t . baeck , informatic centrum dortmund , germany j . bezdek , university of west florida , usa k . hirota , tokyo institute of technology , japan g . dorffner , university of vienna , austria e . oja , helsinki university of technology , finland w . pedrycz , university of manitoba , canada x . yao , the university of new south wales , adfa , australia h . r . berenji , nasa ames research center , usa r . c . eberhart , purdue university , usa a . y . zomaya , university of western australia , australia t . shibata , miti , ministry of international trade and industry , japan h . liljenstrom , royal institute of technology , sweden f . herrera , university of granada , spain a . bulsari , ab nonlinear solutions oy , finland b . bignall , monash university , australia j . d . pinter , dalhousie university , canada v . piuri , politecnico di milano , italy t . furuhashi , nagoya university , japan a . aamodt , norwegian university of science and technology , norway t . yamakawa , kyushu institute of technology , japan l . guan , university of sydney , australia j . fernandez de caete , university of malaga , spain w . duch , nicholas copernicus , university , poland e . tulunay , middle east technical university , turkey c . kuroda , tokyo institute of technology , japan international liaison : canada and usa liaison : j . d . pinter , dalhousie university , canada europe liaison : r . john , de montfort university , uk z . pahlavani , avip , austria local arrangements and public relation : zohra pahlavani , avip , austria christina meier , australia publicity : henry selvaraj monash university ( australia ) robert john , de montfort university ( uk ) publication : baikunth nath , monash university , australia masoud mohammadian , ( chair ) , monash university , australia j . d . pinter , dalhousie university , canada visits and social events sightseeing visits will be arranged for the delegates and guests . a separate program will be arranged for companions during the conference . for further information either contact cimca99 @ fcit . monash . edu . au or see the conference homepage at : http : / / www-gscit . fcit . monash . edu . au / conferences / cimca99
