Subject: new book on the state of modern american linguistics

the publishing house of moscow state university has just released a new 455 - page hard cover book in russian which is a collection of surveys on the state of modern american linguistics . " fundamental trends of modern american linguistics " ( " fundamental ' nye napravlenija sovremennoj amerikanskoj lingvistiki " ) is unique in its scope since it is the first ever comprehensive publication in russian which attempts to present diverse disciplines within american linguistics aimed at the russian - speaking audience . the book consists of three major parts : part i : generative grammar chapter 1 . brief history of the generative grammar ( john bailyn , suny at stony brook ) chapter 2 . a study of syntactic conditions in the generative grammar ( konstantin kazenin & yakov testelec , mgu ) chapter 3 . the generative grammar and the free word order problem ( natasha kondarshova , cornell university ) chapter 4 . the generative grammar and russian linguistics : aspect and case ( natal ' ja isakadze & irina kobozeva , mgu ) part ii : other formal theories : phonology , semantics , psycholinguistics , and acquisition chapter 5 . phonology ( katya zubritskaya , nyu ) chapter 6 . formal semantics ( roumyana izvorska , u of pennsylvania ) chapter 7 . psycholinguistics ( irina sekerina , u of pennsylvania ) chapter 8 . acquisition ( sergey avrutin , yale university ) part iii : functional and cognitive theories chapter 9 . functionalism ( andrey kibrik and vladimir plungjan , mgu ) chapter 10 . semantics in cognitive linguistics ( alan cienki , emory u ) chapter 11 . main concepts of cognitive semantics ( ekaterina rakhilina , viniti ) appendix : the grammaticala relevance of theme / rheme partition ( george fowler , indiana university ) index of languages index of terms the authors and the editors made every attempt to concisely and accurately translate the linguistic terms without which it is impossible to acquaint oneself with linguistic articles in the original . the reader will find russian translations and definitions of such syntactic terms as " subjacency principle " , " spellout " , " island constraints " , phonological terms such as " underspecification theory " , " onset principle " , " the ocp " , " optimality theory " , and many others included in the comprehensive 47 - page russian - english index . most of the phenomena discussed are illustrated with russian examples . please address your inquires to dr . irina sekerina at sekerina @ linc . cis . upenn . edu , an authorized representative . detailed information is posted at the following url : http : / / www . cis . upenn . edu / ~ sekerina / book . htm irina sekerina the institute for research in cognitive science university of pennsylvania
