Subject: kbcs-98 2nd call for papers

k b c s-98 2nd call for papers international conference on knowledge based computer systems national centre for software technology mumbai , india december 17-18 , 1998 the deadline for submission of papers has now been extended to august 30 , 1998 the international conference on knowledge based computer systems will be held in mumbai , india during december 17-18 , 1998 . the conference is intended to act as a forum for promoting interaction among researchers in the field of artificial intelligence in india and abroad . there will be a one and a half day conference during december 17-18 , 1998 followed by a half day of post-conference tutorials on december 18 , 1998 . papers are invited on substantial , original and unpublished research on all aspects of artificial intelligence , including , but not limited to the following : o ai applications o ai architectures o automatic programming o cognitive modeling o expert systems o foundations of ai o genetic algorithms o information retrieval o intelligent agents o intelligent tutoring systems o knowledge acquisition o knowledge management o knowledge representation o machine learning o machine translation o natural language processing o neural networks o planning and scheduling o reasoning o robotics o search techniques o speech processing o theorem proving o uncertainty handling o vision programme committee k . s . r . anjaneyulu , ncst , mumbai s . arunkumar , iit , mumbai amitava bagchi , iim , calcutta pushpak bhattacharya , iit , mumbai nick cercone , u of regina , canada b . b . chaudhuri , isi , calcutta r . chandrasekar , u of pennsylvania , usa s . k . goyal , gte labs , usa s . sen gupta , tata infotech , mumbai j . r . isaac , niit , new delhi aravind k . joshi , u of pennsylvania , usa h . n . mahabala , infosys , bangalore m . narasimha murthy , iisc , bangalore r . narasimhan , cmc , bangalore s . ramani , ncst , mumbai ( chair ) p . v . s . rao , tifr , mumbai p . saint - dizier , u of paul sabatier , france r . sangal , iit , kanpur r . uthurusamy , gmr labs , usa ( co - chair ) m . vidyasagar , cair , bangalore * * to be confirmed organizing committee george arakal , ncst ( chair ) dhawal bhagwat , ncst s . karthik , ncst parag a . mahadane , ncst mandar padhye , ncst p . ravi prakash , ncst durgesh d . rao , ncst m . sasikumar , ncst puneet srivastava , ncst format of submission authors should submit their papers , not to exceed 5000 words ( including figures and references ) either electronically or in hard copy . papers should be in english . papers should include an abstract of about 100-200 words in length . papers outside the specified length are subject to rejection without review . since reviewing will be " blind " , the authors ' names and affiliations along with the main area of the paper should be given only on a separate cover sheet . those submitting by hard copy should send four copies of the paper . papers in electronic form can be in any of the following formats : plain text , postscript , pdf , latex , microsoft word ( rtf format ) or wordstar . submissions in electronic form are preferred . papers will be selected for presentation in the conference , based on international refereeing . proceedings of the conference consisting of papers selected for presentation , will be published by ncst and will be available internationally . abstracts of presented papers will be available on the web . a few selected papers will be published in a special issue of vivek . call for tutorials proposals are invited for post-conference tutorials . tutorials will be half-day and will be held on december 18th , 1998 . the proposal should be presented in the form of a 200 - word abstract , one page topical outline of the content , description of the proposers and their qualifications relating to the tutorial content . send papers and tutorial proposals to the kbcs-98 secretariat . submission deadlines papers : o due : august 30 , 1998 o acceptance notification : october 10 , 1998 o camera ready copy due : november 15 , 1998 tutorial proposals : o due : august 30 , 1998 o acceptance notification : september 15 , 1998 o materials due : november 25 , 1998 registration fees : conference : students : rs 600 delegates from not-for - profit organisations : rs 800 other delegates : rs 1200 tutorials : half day : rs 400 all payments should be made by a crossed cheque or draft , payable to national centre for software technology . for further information please refer to the kbcs-98 home page or write to the kbcs-98 secretariat . address kbcs-98 secretariat national centre for software technology gulmohar cross rd no . 9 juhu , mumbai 400 049 , india url : http : / / konark . ncst . ernet . in / ~ kbcs / kbcs98 / phone : + 91 ( 22 ) 620 1606 fax : + 91 ( 22 ) 621 0139 e - mail : kbcs @ konark . ncst . ernet . in
