Subject: tree - adjoining grammars workshop

tag + workshop - - first call for papers august 1 to august 3 , 1998 tag tutorials - - preliminary announcement july 28 to july 31 , 1998 philadelphia , pa , usa url : http : / / www . cis . upenn . edu / ~ ircs / mol / tag98 . html the fourth workshop on tree-adjoining grammars and related frameworks ( hence the + after tag ) will be held at the institute for research in cognitive science at the university of pennsylvania in august 1998 , from august 1 to august 3 . previous workshops were held at dagstuhl ( 1990 ) , upenn ( 1992 ) , and univ . paris 7 ( 1994 ) . papers on all aspects of tag ( linguistic , mathematical , computational , and applicational ) , as well as papers relating tags to other frameworks , are invited . as in the past there will be some invited talks on other grammar formalisms which have interesting relationships to tags ( for example , categorial grammars and hpsg ) . guidelines for abstracts : abstracts should be at most two pages ( exclusive of references ) , and should be submitted in ascii format , as a . ps file , or as self-contained latex file to jmacdoug @ central . cis . upenn . edu . ( if email is not available , please send the abstract to the address given below . ) please indicate on the abstract if you would prefer to give a short presentation ( 10 minutes ) or a long one ( 30 minutes ) . the abstract should contain your name , address , and email address . proceedings including extended versions ( 4 pages ) of accepted abstracts will be available at the workshop . deadline for submission for abstracts : april 15 notification of acceptance : may 15 deadline for submission of camera-ready extended abstract : july 6 workshop dates : august 1 to august 3 if you do not want to submit an abstract , but would like to attend , we would appreciate it if you could inform us by email by july 6 ( unless you have already done so ) . if you would like to present a demo , please let us know as soon as possible , including information about required hard and software . program committee : anne abeille ( universit ' e paris 7 ) tilman becker ( dfki ) christy doran ( university of pennsylvania ) robert frank ( johns hopkins university ) klaus netter ( dfki ) richard oehrle ( university of arizona ) owen rambow ( cogentex , inc . ) giorgio satta ( universita di padova ) yuka tateisi ( university of tokyo ) k . vijayshanker ( university of delaware ) david weir ( university of sussex ) contact address : jennifer macdougall 553 moore building university of pennsylvania philadelphia , pa 19104-6389 usa telephone : ( 215 ) 898-3191 fax : ( 215 ) 898-0587 email : jmacdoug @ central . cis . upenn . edu tutorial : prior to the workshop there will be a tutorial ( including labs and demos ) from july 28 to july 31 1998 . details about the tutorial will be sent out soon . we are trying to get some partial support for some of the students attending the tutorials . if you may be interested in attending this tutorial , please contact jennifer macdougall at the address above ( preferably by email ) and we will send you more information . organizing committee : anne abeille ( paris 7 ) tilman becker ( dfki ) owen rambow ( cogentex , inc . ) giorgio satta ( universita di padova ) k . vijayshanker ( university of delaware )
