Subject: convergence / divergence of dialects conf - final

european science foundation the convergence and divergence of dialects in a changing europe university of reading , 17-19 september , 1998 final announcement and registration details the final conference of the european science foundation network on the convergence and divergence of dialects in a changing europe will take place at the university of reading , england , on 17-19 september , 1998 . it will include invited lectures by gaetano berruto ( turin ) , william labov ( pennsylvania ) and peter trudgill ( lausanne ) , as well as lectures by members of the network . papers for this event are welcome from everyone working in the area of dialect convergence and divergence in europe , both from a diachronic and a synchronic perspective , using qualitative or quantitative methodology . contributions on the smaller languages of europe are particularly welcome , as are papers on syntax , prosody and discourse . note that we take 'd ialect ' to refer to any non-standard language variety , and that we exclude from consideration relations between what are normally held to be different languages . closing date for receipt of abstracts : 16th march 1998 ( revised deadline ) decision on acceptance of abstracts : by 8th may themes : 1 . the role of standardisation in dialect convergence / divergence 2 . political boundaries and divergence / convergence 3 . the effect of migration on convergence / divergence 4 . historical perspectives on convergence / divergence ( earlier periods , long-term changes , etc . ) 5 . methods for the study of convergence / divergence 6 . dialect convergence / divergence and the light they shed on linguistic and sociolinguistic theory languages of conference : english and french format of papers : 45 minutes ( 30 minutes plus 15 minutes discussion ) , or posters abstracts : either four paper copies of a single-sheet abstract to be sent to paul kerswill at the address below , or an e-mail version to be sent to him on p . e . kerswill @ reading . ac . uk . state which theme your abstract comes under , and whether it is for a paper or a poster . at the top , give your name , institution ( university , etc . ) , address , e-mail address , fax and phone numbers . abstracts must be received by 16th march 1998 . registration : see the following website and click on ' registration form ' : http : / / www . linguistics . reading . ac . uk / research / seminars / dialect / - or e-mail paul kerswill . the site will also contain updates , as will the esf 's : http : / / www . esf . org / diala . htm # finalconference arrival details : reading is in the south of england , between london and oxford . london 's heathrow airport is under an hour away by airport bus . gatwick airport is easily reached by train ( one hour 15 minutes ) . dr paul kerswill ( esf ) department of linguistic science the university of reading whiteknights , po box 218 reading rg6 6aa , uk tel . + 44 118 987 5123 fax + 44 118 975 3365 e-mail p . e . kerswill @ reading . ac . uk peter auer ( hamburg ) , co-chair of network , e-mail auer @ rrz . uni-hamburg . de frans hinskens ( nijmegen ) , co-chair of network , e-mail f . hinskens @ let . kun . nl paul kerswill , local organiser 24 / 1 / 98
