Subject: twlt 14 : twente workshop on language technology

14th twente workshop on language technology language technology in multimedia information retrieval december 7 - 8 1998 , university of twente , the netherlands first announcement on 7 and 8 december 1998 , the fourteenth international twente workshop on language technology ( twlt14 ) will take place at the university of twente , enschede , the netherlands . the topic of this workshop will be " language technology in multimedia information retrieval " twlt14 will focus on the increasingly important role of human language technology in the indexing and accessing of written and spoken documents , video material and / or images , and on the role of language technology for cross-language retrieval and information extraction . the workshop will address the role of language and speech processing both in terms of existing approaches and implementations , in terms of theoretical foundations , and / or emerging directions of research . some 15-19 presentations by people with various backgrounds will be scheduled . proceedings will be available at the workshop . among the invited speakers are : - karen sparck jones ( cambridge , uk ) - hans uszkoreit ( dfki , germany ) - david hull ( xerox , grenoble , france ) - doug appelt ( sri interational , usa ) - arnold smeulders ( amsterdam , nl ) twlt14 is organised in cooperation with the parlevink - project of the university of twente by : klaus netter - dfki , germany email : netter @ dfki . de franciska de jong - university of twente , computer science department , email : fdejong @ cs . utwente . nl djoerd hiemstra - university of twente , computer science department , email : hiemstra @ cs . utwente . nl a full programme will be available in september and will be announced on : http : / / wwwseti . cs . utwente . nl / parlevink / conferences / twlt14 . html for further information please contact the organisers , preferably by email , or otherwise via the workshop secretariat : department of computer science / parlevink university of twente phone : + 31 53 893680 p . o . box 217 , fax : + 31 53 315283 7500 ae enschede the netherlands
