Subject: calls : workshop on american indigenous languages ( wail )

workshop on american indigenous languages santa barbara , ca may 9-10 , 1998 the linguistics department at the university or california , santa barbara issues a call for papers to be presented at its first annual workshop on american indigenous languages ( wail ) . the workshop will be a forum for the discussion of theoretical and descriptive linguistic studies of indigenous languages of the americas . the workshop will take place on saturday and sunday may 9-10 , 1998 on the campus of the university of california , santa barbara . our invited speakers will be nicola bessel , wallace chafe , and marianne mithun . dr . bessell has worked extensively on the phonetics / phonology interface in coeur d ' alene salish . dr . chafe 's current research involves documentation of the seneca and caddo languages . he is also writing a popular book on the importance of native american languages . dr . mithun has just completed a book on the languages of north america for the green series put out by cambridge university press . anonymous abstracts are invited for talks on any topic in linguistics . talks will be 20 minutes , followed by 10 minutes for discussion . individuals may submit abstracts for one single and one co-authored paper . abstracts should be one page with a 500 word limit . a separate page for data and references may be included , if necessary . abstracts may be submitted in hardcopy or by email . the deadline for receipt of abstracts is february 22 , 1998 . for hardcopy submittal , please send four copies of your anonymous one-page abstract . in the envelope , include a 3x5 card with the following information : a . name b . affiliation c . mailing address d . phone number e . e-mail address f . title of your paper hardcopy abstracts should be mailed to : workshop on american indigenous languages department of linguistics university of california , santa barbara santa barbara , ca 93106 email submissions are encouraged . to submit an abstract by email , the information that would be included on the 3x5 card should be in the body of the email message , with the anonymous abstract sent as an attachment . email abstracts should be sent to : wail @ humanitas . ucsb . edu deadline for receipt of abstracts : february 22 , 1998 notification of acceptance will be by email in mid - march . general information santa barbara is situated on the pacific ocean near the santa ynez mountains . the ucsb campus is located near the santa barbara airport , and is approximately 90 miles north of lax airport in los angeles . shuttle buses run from lax to santa barbara several times each day . information about hotel accomodations will be provided on request . crash space for participants may be available with graduate students in the ucsb linguistics department for those who arrange early . wail is co-sponsored by the ucsb linguistics department and the department 's native american indian languages ( nail ) study group , which has been meeting regularly in santa barbara since 1990 , providing a forum for the discussion of issues relating to native american language and culture . for further information contact the conference coordinator at wail @ humanitas . ucsb . edu or ( 805 ) 893-3776 .
