Subject: call for genetic programming book proposals

call for book proposals for kluwer book series on genetic programming kluwer academic publishers announces the genetic programming book series genetic programming is a technique for automatically synthesizing computer programs to solve problems . the kluwer book series on genetic programming will cover applications of genetic programming , theoretical foundations of genetic programming , technique extensions , and implementation issues . it be the first collection of monographs , edited collections , and advanced texts to cover this rapidly growing field . in order to publish material that is timely and reflects the state of the art , the series will focus on books of relatively narrow scope and moderate length and will feature a rapid publication schedule . the first book of the series , langdon 's genetic programming and data structures : genetic programming + data structures = automatic programming ! has already been published . topics may include , but are not limited to design , control , classification , system identification , data mining , pattern recognition and image analysis , data and image compression , evolvable machine language , evolvable hardware , and automatic programming of multi-agent and distributed systems . prospective authors : if you have an idea for a book which would fit in this series , we would welcome the opportunity to review your proposal . should you wish to discuss any potential project further or receive specific information regarding our book proposal requirements , please contact either john koza or scott delman . pleas enclose a short biography with your proposal . john r . koza consulting editor section on medical informatics department of medicine school of medicine medical school office building stanford university 94305-5479 usa e-mail : koza @ genetic-programming . org phone : 650-941 - 0336 fax : 650-941 - 9430 scott delman senior publishing editor kluwer academic publishers 101 philip drive assinippi park norwell , ma 02146 phone : 781-871 - 6311 ext . 299 fax : 781-871 - 7507 email : sdelman @ wkap . com
