Subject: workshop visual representations & interpretations

the vri ' 98 workshop - september 22nd - 24th . foresight centre , university of liverpool , uk advance notice and call for participation we warmly extend an invitation to colleagues to participate in vri ' 98 , an international workshop on visual representations & interpretations being held at the foresight centre , university of liverpool from tuesday september 22nd to thursday september 24th . the main aim of the workshop is to promote inter-disciplinary awareness across a range of disciplines where visual representations and interpretations are exploited . contributions were invited from researchers in any discipline who are actively investigating visual representations and interpretations , including though not limited to : - artists , architects , biologists , chemists , clinicians , cognitive scientists , computer scientists , educationalists , graphic designers , linguists , mathematicians , philosophers , physicists , psychologists and social scientists . we are pleased to report that all these disciplines are represented in the papers chosen for presentation at the workshop . we have also had interesting submissions which have been accepted from researchers in film and media studies , philosophy of science , molecular and cellular science , theatre studies , art and textile design , engineering and other design disciplines . this excellent response means that the conference will be a truly multi-disciplinary event . duration of workshop the considerable interest that has been expressed in the workshop has also led us to extend its duration . the workshop will now run from tuesday 22nd september until lunch-time on thursday 24th september . in order to give a potential participant some idea of the programme , session titles include : - just visualising visualising the information retrieval process visualisation for effective communication technology , change and visualisation the language of symbols visual representations : from molecules to cells articulating the design process visualising the abstract language and form across domains the detailed programme for the conference is published on the vri ' 98 www site : - http : / / www . csc . liv . ac . uk / ~ ien / vri / programme details at : - http : / / www . csc . liv . ac . uk / ~ ien / vri / programme . html registration and booking details registration details and a downloadable booking form are available from : - http : / / www . csc . liv . ac . uk / ~ ien / vri / call _ papers . html # registration this form together with with a cheque for 75 uk pounds or a request for an invoice ( see form for details ) should be sent to beth james , connect , foresight centre , 3 brownlow street , liverpool , l69 3gl . beth will be dealing with the registration for the conference . all queries in respect of registration should be made , ideally by email , to beth at beth @ csc . liv . ac . uk visit to tate gallery ( liverpool ) after the end of the workshop , on the afternoon of the 24th september , the tate gallery , liverpool has very kindly invited vri ' 98 participants to a guided tour of the willie doherty exhibition " somewhere else " , showing as part of revolution98 ( the 9th international symposium on electronic art , 2nd september-11 th october ) . numbers are restricted so those interested in participating in this tour are requested to email vri98 @ csc . liv . ac . uk expressing interest in this tour as soon as possible . preference for places will be given to overseas visitors . acknowledgements vri ' 98 is co-sponsored by connect , department of computer science , the university of liverpool , unilever research and barclay 's bank . visual representations & interpretations foresight centre c / o dr irene neilson , 3 brownlow street liverpool l69 3gl http : / / www . csc . liv . ac . uk / ~ ien / vri /
