Subject: " de dag . proceedings of the workshop on definites "

" de dag . proceedings of the workshop on definites " edited by paul dekker , jaap van der does , helen de hoop * * * this collection of original papers on definites presents current research from the netherlands . definiteness , one of the central topics in linguistic research , remains an intriguing subject with many issues unresolved . many of the papers in this collection do not only contribute to the characterization of definites in one particular area of language or logic : they also shed light on issues of the interfaces between semantics , pragmatics , syntax and processing . a quick reminder of the semantic characteristics of ( in ) definites is added to the introduction by jaap van der does . paul dekker 's paper studies the semantics and pragmatics of the referential interpretation of definites and the specific interpretation of indefinites , using notions of information from dynamic semantic theory . differences in syntactic behaviour ( in particular with respect to scrambling ) between definites and indefinites are studied in relation to their semantic properties by helen de hoop . edith kaan shows that the processing mechanism is not only driven by structure but also sensitive to the ( in ) definiteness of the np involved . a new version of van der sandt 's presuppositions-as - anaphors theory is presented by emiel krahmer and kees van deemter , dealing particularly well with partial match phenomena between anaphoric and antecedent nps . manuela pinto focuses on the syntactic licensing and interpretation of definite inverted subjects in italian . an extension of the study of ( in ) definites to the domain of temporal measuring nouns is provided by henk verkuyl . in the last paper of the volume , yoad winter presents an analysis of unary distributivity to account for the seemingly polyadic effects in sentences with multiple occurrences of plural definites . * * * copy 's of " de dag . proceedings of the workshop on definites " cost dfl . 20 , - for members of lot and dfl . 25 , - for others , and are available from the utrecht institute of linguistics ots . if you would like to order a copy , please send an e-mail ( with your name and ( e-mail ) address ) to uil-ots @ let . ruu . nl .
