Subject: journal of translation and textlinguistics

subject : journal longacre , robert e . , journal of translation and textlinguistics , vol . 10 1998 issn : 1055-4513 ; $ 7 . 95 summer institute of linguistics . nicholas a . bailey " what 's wrong with my word order ? " ethel e . wallis mark 's goal - oriented plot structure julia irene dieterman participant reference in isthmus mixe narrative discourse c . john collins coherence in james 1 : 19-27 subject : journal dr . pattiya jimreivat for the mks editorial board mon-khmer studies : a journal of southeast asian languages vol . 28 , pb ; issn : 0147-5207 , viii + 228 pp . , 1998 , $ 29 . 00 summer institute of linguistics . this volume is in memoriam of william a . smalley . articles are : - tones and voice quality in modern northern vietnamese : instrumental case studies , by nguyen van loi and jerold a . edmondson - kyansittha and the indic words in myanmar from mon , by nai pan hla - affixes in katu of the lao p . d . r . , by nancy a . costello - an acoustic study of battambang khmer vowels , by ratree wayland - prepositional vs . directional coverbs in vietnamese , by sophana srichampa - some kam - tai loan-words in mon - khmer languages , by qin xiaohang - expressing comparison in the tai languages , by lev n . morev - numeral classifiers in sgaw karen , by suriya ratanakul - diachronic evolution of initial consonants in buyang , by li jingfang and zhou guoyan internet : academic . books @ sil . org available for review http : / / www . sil . org subject : linguistics walter a . cook , s . j . , author ; case grammar applied ; pb . isbn : 1-55671 - 046 - 1 ; xiii + 275 pp . , 1998 , $ 29 . 00 . summer institute of linguistics and the university of texas at arlington . dr . walter cook , s . j . , is one of the promoters of the georgetown university round table on languages and linguistics and author of numerous publications in linguistics . in case grammar theory ( 1989 ) , the author described the case grammar models of fillmore , chafe , anderson , gruber , jackendoff , and some tagmemicists as contrasting models within case grammar theory . in the present volume , intended as a companion volume to the previous one , we find a methodology for case grammar , tested in extended textual analysis including ernest hemingway 's the old man and the sea . because case grammar lends itself well to displaying the way syntactic features are associated with semantic structures , the author is able to use case grammar as an unusually clear , simple guide for sentence analysis . internet : academic , books @ sil . org available for review http : / / www . sil . org karen ann daley , author ; vietnamese classifiers in narrative texts . pb . isbn : 1-55671 - 021 - 6 ; xii + 214 pp . , 1998 , $ 29 . 00 summer institute of linguistics , and the university of texas at arlington . karen daley leads the reader into what is perhaps the first discourse study of vietnamese classifiers to date . after presenting a summary of classifiers and their function in languages of the world , she challenges the validity of regarding vietnamese classifiers as simply fitting the prototypical pattern of phrase-level numeral classifiers . in vietnamese several of the functions attributed to classifiers imply discourse relations , despite the prevailing assumption that their use is associated with the syntactic relations of phrases . a coherent pattern of classifier use becomes evident when they are observed in the larger syntactic environment of discourse . daley uses discourse measurements of overall frequency , referential distance , and referential persistence and compares them with four criteria from a study of classifiers in white hmong . the results in the present study indicate that the basic function of classifiers in vietnamese discourse is referential - - to mark salience . internet : academic . books @ sil . org available for review http : / / www . sil . org long yaohong and zheng guoqiao , authors , translated from chinese by d . norman geary ; the dong language in guizhou province , china ; pb . isbn : 1-55671 - 051 - 8 ; xvi + 272 pp . , 1998 , $ 29 . 00 . summer institute of linguistics and the university of texas at arlington . the dong people are renowned within china for their beautiful singing and their architectural prowess . their gifts have grown and flourished in the valleys and mountains of guizhou , hunan , and guangxi provinces of southwestern china . in relative obscurity before the establishment of the people 's republic of china , the 2 . 5 million dong people are fast gaining an international reputation . the dong language is distinctive for its many tones . it is often referred to outside china as kam and occupies a significant position in the kam - tai family of the sino - tibetan phylum . long yaohong and zhong guoqiao are recognized authorities on dong language research . mr . long is a native speaker of dong . he provides an introduction , touching on many aspects of dong history , culture , and language , and a discussion of the grammar . mr . zheng supplies sections on phonology , lexicon , and orthography . the two authors jointly present a chapter on dong dialects . the book as a whole represents the first comprehensive description of the dong language available in english . internet : academic . books @ sil . org available for review http : / / www . sil . org subject : weg ( pakistan ) joan l . g . baart , author ; the sounds and tones of kalam kohistani ; with wordlists and texts ; pb . isbn : 969-8023 - 03 - 8 ; 1997 , xvi + 128 pp . , $ 12 . 00 . summer institute of linguistics and national institute of pakistan studies . this volume starts a new series " studies in languages of northern pakistan , " published jointly by the summer institute of linguistics and the national institute of pakistan studies in islamabad . the series will include studies of the phonology , grammar , lexicon , and oral literature of kalasha , shina , burushaski , and other languages of northern pakistan . kalam kohistani ( in the literature also known as garwi or bashkarik ) belongs to the dardic branch of indo - aryan . the current volume presents a sketch of the sound system and tonal system of this language , based on recent fieldwork . it also makes a wordlist and text data available for further study . internet : academic . books @ sil . org available for review http : / / www . sil . org sincerely , grace fuqua academic publications summer institute of linguistics grace _ fuqua @ sil . org
