Subject: iceis 99 call for papers

iceis ' 99 - announcement and call for papers . 1st international conference on enterprise information systems 27 - 30 march , 1999 . setubal , portugal scope the international conference on enterprise information systems ( iceis ) aims at becoming a major point of contact between research scientists , engineers and practitioners on the area of business applications of information systems . four simultaneous tracks will be held , covering all different aspects related to enterprise computing , including database applications , artificial intelligence applications , decision support systems , systems analysis and specification , software engineering , methodologies to address information and knowledge sharing issues and internet / intranet computing . iceis focuses on real world applications therefore authors should highlight the benefits of information technology for industry and services . ideas on how to solve business problems , using it , will arise from the conference . papers describing advanced prototypes , systems , tools and techniques and general survey papers indicating future directions are also encouraged . papers describing original work are invited in any of the areas listed below . accepted papers , presented at the conference by one of the authors , will be published in the proceedings of iceis . acceptance will be based on quality , relevance and originality . there will be both oral and poster sessions . special sessions , dedicated to case-studies and commercial presentations , as well as technical tutorials , dedicated to technical / scientific topics , are also envisaged : companies interested in presenting their products / methodologies or researchers interested in lecturing a tutorial are invited to contact the conference secretariat . topic areas / conference tracks area 1 . database technology and its applications area 2 . artificial intelligence and decision support systems area 3 . systems analysis and specification area 4 . internet and intranet computing each of these coonference tracks is expanded in the conference 's web page at : http : / / www . est . ips . pt / iceis program committee agostinho rosa ist / technical university of lisboa ( pt ) alfred ultsch university of marburg ( de ) altamiro machado university of minho - polo de guimaraes ( pt ) ana fred ist / technical university of lisboa ( pt ) antonio figueiredo university of coimbra ( pt ) bernadette sharp university of stafford ( uk ) carlos belo ist / technical university of lisboa ( pt ) carlos zorrinho university of evora ( pt ) colin theaker university of stafford ( uk ) edmundo madeira university of campinas ( br ) edmundo monteiro university of coimbra ( pt ) ernesto costa university of coimbra ( pt ) fernando boavida university of coimbra ( pt ) fernando moura pires new university of lisboa ( pt ) gabriel pereira lopes new university of lisboa ( pt ) helder coelho university of lisboa ( pt ) henrique madeira university of coimbra ( pt ) j . legatheaux martins new university of lisboa ( pt ) joao alvaro carvalho university of minho - polo de guimaraes ( pt ) joao gabriel university of coimbra ( pt ) kecheng liu university of stafford ( uk ) manuela veloso carnegie mellon university ( us ) mark s . fox university of toronto ( ca ) matti linna vaasa institute of technology ( fi ) nuno mamede ist / technical university of lisboa ( pt ) patrice dehais university of gent ( be ) paulo ferreira ist / technical university of lisboa ( pt ) pedro veiga university of lisboa ( pt ) rita loogen university of marburg ( de ) ronald stamper university of twente ( nl ) slimone hammondi university of minho - polo de guimaraes ( pt ) zahir tari university of melbourne ( au ) therese libourel lirmm - montpellier ( fr ) thomas norgall university of erlangen ( de ) thomas penzel university of marburg ( de ) = 20 vasco freitas university of minho - polo de braga ( pt ) invited speakers invited speakers , experts in their fields , either from academia or from industry , belonging to internationally recognised institutions , will present key lectures at the opening of each conference track . at the moment the presence of professor mark fox , professor ronald stamper and professor tom greene are already confirmed . case-study sessions business consulting companies , hardware and software manufacturers and business companies in general are invited to submit case studies , regarding their own information technology problems and solutions . for this purpose , iceis will have a track of case-study sessions and company presentation sessions . the attendance to these sessions is free for all the conference participants . all case studies should be submitted by email to the iceis secretariat . a number of invited case-study sessions is already scheduled . tutorials any person interested in organising a tutorial should contact the secretariat before november 1 , 1998 . proposals for half-day tutorials ( approx . 3 hours ) should include the topic and scope of the tutorial , the expected background knowledge of the participants , and a resume of the instructor ( s ) . exhibition the conference site will have an area for company stands , where a number of companies will present themselves and their products . companies interested in presenting their products , showing documentation about them or demonstrating some application , are invited to contact the secretariat and make a reservation for a booth located at the conference site . due to the limited number of stands available it is recommended to make early reservations . in addition , there is a 50 % discount in space prices for reservations made before september 30 , 1998 . prices and available spaces will be provided by the iceis secretariat . location the conference will be held in setubal , a town 50 - km south of lisboa , the portuguese capital . setubal and its surroundings are a major touristic place , in portugal , where the visitor can find anything from ancient historical areas , in palmela , to pleasurable beaches and modern golf courses , in troia . submission of abstracts for more information about submission of abstracts , please visit the conference 's web page : http : / / www . est . ips . pt / iceis or contact de secretariat ( address below ) . best student paper award an award of us $ 1 , 000 ( one thousand us dollars ) will be given to the best paper presented by a student ( graduate , m . sc or ph . d ) . the organising committee will decide , based on the feedback provided by the program committee . to qualify for the best student paper award , the student , besides being one of the authors , must present the paper at the conference site . local arrangements inquiries concerning hotel reservation and touristic aspects can be directed to the local touristic agent ( address below ) . the local specialised travel agency will make all arrangements . transportation facilities are available from the lisboa international airport to the hotel in setubal , for all reservations made through this travel agency . local touristic programs , for accompanying attendants are also available through the agency . the conference site will be approximately 5 km away from the town centre , therefore free transportation between a number of hotels and the conference site will be provided by the conference organisation , during the conference days . coffee breaks and lunch meals will be provided at the conference site , for conference participants . local touristic agent name : expansao contact person : mr . francisco daniel tel : 351 65 528805 fax : 351 65 21684 e - mail : iceis @ est . ips . pt important dates extended abstract submission : october 21 , 1998 . acceptance notification : december 15 , 1998 . early registration deadline : january 1 , 1999 . full paper camera-ready version : january 20 , 1999 . event date : march 27-30 , 1999 . sponsored by ibm - international business machines icep - investimentos , comercio e turismo de portugal cgd - caixa geral de depositos autoeuropa rtca - regiao de turismo da costa azul esce / ips - escola superior de ciencias empresariais / ips unesul - associacao universidade empresas do sul organisation secretariat this conference is organised by the school of technology of the polytechnic institute of setubal est / ips in collaboration with the portuguese association for informatics api any inquiries should be addressed to the secretariat below , preferably by email . iceis secretariat escola superior de tecnologia / ips rua vale chaves - estefanilha , 2910 setubal portugal tel . : 351 65 79 00 00 fax : 351 65 721 869 email : iceis @ est . ips . pt web site : http : / / www . est . ips . pt / iceis
