Subject: 13th paclic

the 13th pacific asia conference on language , information and computation february 10-12 , 1999 the grand hotel , taipei , taiwan , r . o . c . second call for papers the department of computer science and information engineering , national cheng kung university , is pleased to announce that the 13th pacific asia conference on language , information and computation ( paclic 13 ) will be held in the grand hotel , taipei , taiwan , r . o . c . , on february 10-12 , 1999 . scope : the conference is an annual meeting of scholars with a wide range of interest in theoretical and computational linguistics . papers are invited on substantial , original , and unpublished research on all aspects of theoretical and computational linguistics , including , but not limited to the following . 1 . syntax 2 . corpus linguistics 3 . phonology 4 . natural language processing 5 . pragmatics 6 . semantics 7 . computer applications 8 . discourse and dialogue analysis 9 . morphology 10 . formal grammar theory paper submission : four hard-copies of a preliminary version of a full paper ( maximum 25 letter - or a4 - sized pages , double spaced throughout ) should be sent to the following address . the first page of the submitted paper should bear the following information : the title of the paper , the name ( s ) of the author ( s ) , affiliations , mailing address , and email address for correspondence . chung - hsien wu department of computer science and information engineering , national cheng kung university tainan , taiwan , r . o . c . email : chwu @ server2 . iie . ncku . edu . tw fax : 886 - 6-2746867 important dates : preliminary paper submission due : october 10 , 1998 notification of acceptance : november 25 , 1998 camera - ready copy due : january 5 , 1999 conference chairs chairman jhing - fa wang national cheng kung university , taiwan email : wangjf @ server2 . iie . ncku . edu . tw co - chairmen kim teng lua national university of singapore benjamin k . t 's ou city university of hong kong young - hern lee korean society for language and information , korea akira ikeya tokyo gakuen university , japan lin - shan lee academia sinica , taiwan program chairs chairman chung - hsien wu national cheng kung university , taiwan co - chairman jen - tzung chien national cheng kung university , taiwan program committee ozeki kakazuhiko , japan matsumoto yuji , japan kawamori masahito , japan kanazawa makoto , japan igarashi yoshiyuki , japan suk - jin chang , korea jaewoong choe , korea chungmin lee , korea ik - hwan lee , korea byung - soo park , korea lai bong yeung tom , hong kong samuel w . k . chan , hong kong jin guo , singapore jie xu , singapore hai zhou li , singapore one - soon her , taiwan zhao - ming gao , taiwan hsue - hueh hsu , taiwan charces c . lee , taiwan chu - ren huang , taiwan http : / / www . csie . ncku . edu . tw / paclic13
