Subject: special issue cl journal / finite state methods . . .

please post or distribute call for papers computational linguistics special issue on finite state methods in natural language processing recent years has seen a substantial increase in the use of finite state techniques in many aspects of natural language processing as mature tools for building large scale finite-state systems from various research laboratories and universities become available . this trend was by no means foreseen as late as ten years ago given the well-known demonstration by noam chomsky in 1957 that finite-state methods are inherently incapable of representing the full richness of constructions in a natural language . nevertheless , it is evident now that there are many subsets of natural language that are adequately covered by finite-state means and that there are many other areas where finite-state approximations of more powerful formalisms are of great practical benefit . as a follow-up to the fsmnlp ' 98 , international workshop on finite state methods in natural language processing , it was proposed that a collection of papers in this area be published as a special issue of the computational linguistics journal . we would to encourage authors of the papers presented at this workshop , as well as all others who would like to contribute , to submit full versions of their papers for consideration for this special issue . guest editors : lauri karttunen ( xerox research centre europe , france ) kemal oflazer ( bilkent university , turkey ) guest editorial board eric brill ( johns hopkins university , md , usa ) eva ejerhed ( umea university , sweden ) ronald m . kaplan ( xerox palo alto research center , ca , usa ) martin kay ( xerox palo alto research center , ca , usa ) george kiraz ( bell laboratories , nj , usa ) andrs kornai ( bbn , ma , usa ) mehryar mohri ( at&t labs research , nj , usa ) mark - jan nederhof ( dfki , germany ) atro voutilainen ( university of helsinki , finland ) submission details please submit 6 copies of your hard-copy manuscript to lauri karttunen xerox research centre europe 6 chemin de maupertuis meylan , 38240 , france by monday , october 19 , 1998 . the format of the submission should follow the general submission requirements of the journal . manuscripts for computational linguistics should be submitted on letter-size paper ( 8 . 5 by 11 inches , or a4 ) , double-spaced throughout , including footnotes and references . the paper should begin with an informative abstract of approximately 150-250 words . manuscripts must be written in english .
