Subject: books : pidgins & creoles , oceanic ling

pidgins and creoles muehlhausler , peter , ed . papers in pidgin and creole linguistics no . 5 1998 , isbn 0 85883 474 x , v + 213pp . softcover . ( in press ) a $ 41 . 40 pacific linguistics catalogue number , a-91 . key words : pidgins and creoles ; lexicology ; pitcairn ; bislama ; western australia . this volume brings together lexicographic and sociolinguistic descriptions of some of the less well-documented pidgins , creoles and contact languages of the pacific region , adding many important details to current knowledge . for more information , contact : pacific linguistics http : / / coombs . anu . edu . au / depts / rspas / ling / pl / pageone . html oceanic ling tent , jan and france mugler , sicol proceedings of the second international conference on oceanic linguistics : vol . 1 , language contact 1998 , isbn 0 85883 448 x , ix + 146pp . softcover . a $ 36 . 25 pacific linguistics catalogue number , c-141 . key words : language contact ; creoles ; pidgins . this volume contains most of the papers presented at the second international conference on oceanic linguistics session on language contact . the papers range far afield , but the bulk are about the pacific and in particular melanesia , the part of the region with the greatest linguistic diversity and a rich history of language contact . the topics relate to : fiji hindi ( david arms ) , the tayo language of new caledonia ( chris core ) , belizean creole ( genevieve escure ) , singapore colloquial english ( anthea fraser gupta ) , french antillean creoles ( william jennings ) , melanesian pidgins and creole ( ernest w . lee ) , bislama ( miriam meyerhoff ) , south indian languages in fiji ( france mugler ) , language use and attitudes in fiji ( france mugler and jan tent ) , and the language of adolescent first language tok pisin speakers ( geoff p . smith ) . for more information , contact : pacific linguistics http : / / coombs . anu . edu . au / depts / rspas / ling / pl / pageone . html
