Subject: new book : atomism and binding

atomism and binding edited by hans bennis , pierre pica and johan rooryck the state of the art in binding : everything on reference , coreference , nonreference and disjoint reference , and more on boundedness and freedom . the sixteen papers in this new volume provide a representative overview of the broad range of issues relevant to the study of binding phenomena in the generative framework . since the inception of the theoretical interest in co-referential relations in generative grammar , there has been a debate with respect to the question as to whether and how ( co ) - reference should be represented in the grammar . notions such as " ( co ) - indexation " , " disjoint reference " , " free " and " bound " play an important role in this discussion . their relevance is explicitly analyzed in many articles of this volume . the role of thematic information in binding theory constitutes another important line of inquiry elaborated on in this book . various contributors to this volume argue that thematic information largely influences binding phenomena , although the specific proposals expressing this relation differ quite substantially . another issue pursued here is related to the discussion whether binding theory is a component of sentence grammar . many papers address this issue quite explicitly and delineate the respective roles of sentence and discourse grammar in novel and intriguing ways . the volume contains the following contributions : stephen berman & arild hestvik : " split antecedents , noncoreference and drt " ; george aaron broadwell : " binding theory and switch-reference " ; hamida demirdache : " condition c " ; robert fiengo & robert may : " the semantic significance of syntactic identity " ; zygmunt frajzyngier : " pronouns and agreement : systems interaction in the coding of reference " ; robert freidin : " binding theory on minimalist assumptions " ; jeff gruber : " a configurational approach to thematic binding " ; james higginbotham : " a plea for implicit anaphors " ; hajime hoji : " sloppy identity and principle b " ; jan koster : " anaphora and the uniformity of grammar " ; howard lasnik : " levels of representation and the elements of anaphora " ; seth minkoff : " on the syntax of local and logophoric control " ; gertjan postma : " logical entailment and the possessive nature of reflexive pronouns " ; eric reuland & sigridur sigurjonsdottir : " long distance ' binding ' in icelandic : syntax or discourse ? " ; ken safir : " symmetry and unity in the theory of anaphora " ; christopher tancredi : " pronouns and perspectives " . and a very informative introduction by the editors . xx + 412 pp . isbn 90 6765 535 x . paperback . price : nlg 61 , 32 ( excl . vat and p&p ) holland academic graphics , the hague < http : / / www . hag . nl > rint sybesma holland academic graphics po box 53292 2505 ag the hague the netherlands fax : + 31 70 448 0177
