Subject: table of contents glot international 3 - 5

table of contents of glot international , vol . 3 , issue 5 editors : lisa l . s . cheng and rint sybesma < mail to : glot @ rullet . leidenuniv . nl > < http : / / www . hag . nl / glot . htm > interview with james mccawley : " what 's right about x - bar syntax is the x and the bar . what 's wrong is everything else ! " state - of-the - article : marc van oostendorp : " schwa in phonological theory " " in general it seems that the requirements on schwa syllables are much stronger than those on syllables headed by other vowels . " column : neil smith writes on " acquired whining " " to return at the end to woody allen , it is clear that the quotation i started with was inspired by his admiration for chomsky . " dissertations : " the syntax of past participles . a generative study of nonfinite constructions in ancient and modern italian " by verner egerland ( lund 1996 ) reviewed by yves d ' hulst " direct object scrambling in dutch and italian child language " by jeannette schaeffer ( ucla 1997 ) reviewed by astrid ferdinand books : " base rules phonetically " by joan mascar reviewing " grounded phonology " by diana archangeli and douglas pulleyblank ( mit press 1994 ) goodies : " signal analysis and digital signals " by stefan frisch reviewing " winsal - v " , by ingolf franke conference reports : glow special : reports glow hyderabad , india , january 20-23 ( by georges tsoulas ) glow tilburg , april 15-18 , including the workshops ( by ileana paul , marc van oostendorp , and jan - wouter zwart ) interview with henk van riemsdijk ( by lisa cheng and rint sybesma ) : " we ' re a great field , but it is small and in considerable danger . " console 6 , december 15-17 , university of lisbon ( by joo costa ) the number of death a linguistic mystery in eight installments by chris sidney tappan chapter 4 . towards some hypotheses rint sybesma holland academic graphics po box 53292 2505 ag the hague the netherlands fax : + 31 70 448 0177
