Subject: available for review : phonology

the three books listed below are in the linguist office and now available for review . if you are interested in reviewing a book ( or leading a discussion of the book ) ; please contact our book review editor , andrew carnie , at : carnie @ linguistlist . org note : please include in your request message a brief statement about your research interests , background , affiliation and other information that might be valuable to help us select a suitable reviewer . do not provide a link or url to an online cv or homepage - - these will be ignored . please also provide a surface address for us to send the book to . phonology : james m . scobbie ; autosegmental representation in a declarative constraint - based framework 0-8153 - 1949 - 0 , cloth ; 280 pages , $ 61 ; garland publishing ; outstanding dissertations in linguistics the book examines the formal characterization of multiple association from the perspective of a declarative constraint-based phonological framework . both the autosegmental and constraint-based aspects of the book are highly relevant to recent developments in phonological theory , predating the current interest in constraint interaction and optimization . inspired by the empirical and formal success of unification - based grammars , all phonological rules and representations are interpreted as hard constraints on well-formedness . in general then , constraints are simply conjoined , and faithfulness to the lexical entry is obligatory . alternations arise from underspecification . the multiple sequenced tiers of autosegmental phonology are shown to be redundant , and linear order is limited to the root tier . association is then defined as the inverse of dominance within the feature geometry , so multiple association is co-dominance of a feature by two roots . the no crossing constraint is not applicable since non-root features are not on sequenced tiers , and the sharing constraint is introduced instead as the key means of forcing locality on co-dominance : it bans co-dominance by non - adjacent roots . thus , because features and association lines are indestructible , the key autosegmental properties of integrity and inalterability are predicted to occur . long distance dependencies are then considered . from the perspective of structural integrity , discontinuous geminates in planar morphologies are more like fake geminates than true geminates , which is predicted by the sharing constraint . only a tiny amount of nontonal data can be presented in favor of non-local multiple association which feeds phonological rules : chaha displays non-local inalterability and javanese , the opposite ( side-effects ) . thus the balance of evidence is against a single mechanism uniting local and non-local multiple association . phonology daniel silverman ; phasing and recoverability ; 0-8153 - 2876 - 1 , cloth ; 256 pages , $ 56 ; garland publishing ; outstanding dissertations in linguistics this phonological study investigates the articulatory timing ( " phasing " ) relationships that render acoustic cues optimally recoverable by the listener , and the strong tendency for languages to allow sub-optimal timing patterns only if they allow optimal ones . the primary area of focus is the otomanguean language group of oaxaca , mexico and neighboring states , which possesses " laryngeally complex " vowels , a typologically unusual pattern in which tone and non-modal phonatory settings ( breathiness , creakiness ) cross-classify . the laryngeally complex vowels of jalapa mazatec , comaltepec , chinantec , and copala trique are studied in depth . also explored are the phasing relations between obstruents and laryngeals , and sonorants and laryngeals , including phonological analyses from such diverse groups as mon - khmer , tibeto - burman , and nilotic , among others . throughout the investigation , findings from a number of relevant disciplines aerodynamics , acoustics , audition are applied to the sound patterns in an effort not only to describe them in phonetic detail , but also to explain their phonological and typological behavior . ( ph . d . dissertation , university of california - los angeles , 1995 ; revised with new bibliography and index ) phonology burquest , donald a . , author ; phonological analysis : a functional approach ; pb ; isbn : 1-55671 - 067 - 4 ; x + 314 pp . , 1998 , 2nd ed . , $ 29 . 00 . summer institute of linguistics . human language is a remarkable phenomenon . its study continues to be a source of fascination and delight . dr . donald burquest , professor of linguistics at the university of texas at arlington , developed this foundational textbook during years of helping students overcome the feelings of dismay that new phonology students experience when confronted by a mass of raw phonetic data . while working through the material , the student is led through the steps of organizing data and is introduced to particular theories for later in-depth specialization . the author expands on the previous edition of this text by adding introductions to autosegmental phonology and metrical phonology . he has also included a series of problems at the end of most chapters that provide an opportunity for the student to apply the information in that chapter . this textbook is intended for use in an upper division introductory course in phonology , preparing the student to further study aspects of current theory .
