Subject: feminist conference : call for papers

we are pleased to inform you that the center for studies and research on women which is affiliated to the faculty of letters and humanities dhar el mehraz , fes , morocco , is organizing an international conference on 8 , 9 , and 10 april 1999 on the following theme : feminist mouvements : origins and orientations current academic research on women has acquired a significant place in the field of knowledge . as a scientific discipline , it has largely contributed to theoretical elaborations . these elaborations , however , cannot be fully appreciated except in a framework that enhances the origins and orientations of feminist movements which have initiated and developed research studies on women . through the theme of this conference we aim to place the problem of origins and orientations of feminist movements in a context wide but specific enough to foster a real understanding of these movements at a universal scale . with this aim in mind , the conference will address the following issues , related to the historical , cultural , social , legal and ideological dimensions : 1 . the historical and cultural conditions which have crystallised into feminist movements worldwide ; 2 . the cultural and civilisational origins which have characterised these movements since their inception ; 3 . the nature of interaction between western feminist movements and their arab counterparts ; 4 . the intellectual orientations behind the evolution of feminist movements throughout the world . 5 . futurist views on feminist movements abstracts may be in english , french or arabic . deadline for receiving abstracts : november 30th , 1998 . the university will pay for board and lodging of the participants . abstracts may be sent by e-mail , fax , or surface mail to : fatima sadiqi department of english faculte des lettres dhar el mehraz b . p . 50 fes 30000 morocco fax : + 212 + 5 64 08 44 e-mail : < sadiqi @ fesnet . net . ma > telephone : + 212 + 5 61 09 10
