Subject: 2nd call , tls 1999

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - second call for papers - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - announcing the 1999 conference of the texas linguistics society perspectives on argument structure to be held at the university of texas at austin , march 5 - 7 , 1999 . keynote speakers : beth levin ( northwestern university ) james pustejovsky ( brandeis university ) michael tanenhaus ( university of rochester ) deadline for receipt of abstracts : october 16 , 1998 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - abstracts are invited for 30 - minute talks ( with 10 additional minutes for discussion ) . issues of argument structure have proven to be of long-standing interest within diverse subfields of linguistics . the intent of this conference is to bring together researchers working on argument structure from different perspectives . in keeping with this idea , presentations that address argument structure from the perspective of formal syntax or semantics are encouraged , as well as those that take psycholinguistic , computational or other approaches . potential topics include , but are not limited to : * theories of linking ; relating argument structure to syntactic structure * accounts of case assigment * lexical conceptual semantics and argument structure * computational implementation & models of argument structure or linking * syntax / semantic interface and language acquisition * acquisition of argument structure * language processing of argument structure , subcategorization or lexical / conceptual structure abstracts must be no more than on 8 . 5 " by 11 " page , single spaced and in at least 12 - point type ( 10 - point for examples ) , with one-inch margin on all sides . one additional page with references , diagrams and data ( no text ) may be appended , if necessary . all submissions must include the following : * six anonymous copies of the abstract * one 3 " x5 " card with name , affiliation , address , phone number , e-mail and title of paper deadline for receipt of abstracts is october 16 , 1998 . send abstracts to : tls abstract committee calhoun 501 , b5100 the university of texas at austin austin , tx 78712 abstracts received after the deadline will not be considered . fax submissions will not be accepted . instructions for text-only e-mail submissions are available by request . an individual may submit at most one single and one co-authored paper . authors whose abstracts are accepted will be notified in mid - december , 1998 . presenters who wish to have their papers included in the conference proceedings must submit a camera ready copy by may 15 , 1999 . proceedings will be published by the texas linguistics forum . conference pre-registration is $ 15 . 00 ( us ) for students , $ 25 . 00 for non-students . for more information , e-mail tls @ uts . cc . utexas . edu or visit the conference website at http : / / uts . cc . utexas . edu / ~ tls /
