Subject: skytop sales - - save over $ 100 on a digital camera !

if you ' ve been searching for a high-resolution , feature-laden digital camera that produces images with incredible levels of detail and color depth , and which has a price tag that won't break the bank , well , you ' ve probably wondered if such an unlikely animal exists . . . it does . and skytop sales has it . http : / / 207 . 13 . 239 . 101 / cgi-bin / rtr ? 91byvpm1scp9pdbo3lc0hxy5klcz3c announcing the svmini - 209 from sound vision - - a digital camera that utilizes the latest technology to deliver ultrahigh-quality images ( 2000x1600 pixels ! ) at an affordable price . never heard of sound vision ? you probably know their products . sound vision is a camera manufacturer . their customers , in most cases , are large companies who brand the cameras sound vision makes and resell them as their own . one such company , for example , is selling a sound vision camera under its own very well-known label ; that camera retails for $ 479 . ( or more . the middlemen have to make their dough , of course . ) that same camera under the original manufacturer ' s label is called the sound vision svmini - 209 . through skytop sales , it 's only $ 349 . by sacrificing the big label and eliminating the middlemen , you save eighty bucks on the identical unit . and to sweeten the deal even further , we ' ll include $ 125 worth of memory enhancements at no additional cost . to have a look at the svmini - 209 , please visit our web site by following the link below . ( and bear in mind that you ' ve probably already seen this camera , if you ' ve been doing any comparison shopping . it just had a different name , and cost more . ) http : / / 207 . 13 . 239 . 101 / cgi-bin / rtr ? 91byvpm1scp9pdbo3lc0hxy5klcz3c the most camera your money can buy . . . sound vision uses new cmos sensor technology at the heart of its svmini - 209 to deliver greatly increased resolution at a lower cost . in fact , sound vision 's cameras were the first on the market to use cmos sensors instead of the traditional ccd sensors used in other digital cameras . the benefits of cmos technology : - higher resolution - - the svmini - 209 captures huge 3 . 2 megapixel images ( that 's 2000x1600 pixels ! ) - lower cost than ccds - - get more camera for the dollar - lower power draw - - dramatically increased battery life knock-out images and accompanying sound can be stored either in camera internal memory or on removable flash memory cards , both linear and sandisk . level - selectable jpeg compression allows you to find the right balance of image quality and memory economy . ( the module which allows the svmini - 209 to use sandisk cards , called the minidisk option , normally is a separate purchase . like we said : we ' re throwing it in for free . that , and a free 2 mb sandisk card - - a combined value of $ 125 ! ) taking great photos with the svmini - 209 is effortless . in addition to the red , green , and blue color receptors common to other digital cameras , the svmini - 209 features a fourth receptor for teal , which dramatically increases possible color depth ( and , in fact , more closely mimics the capabilities of the human retina ) . a sophisticated auto-exposure algorithm prevents the over-saturation of highlights while still preserving shadow detail . an automatic electronic flash guarantees that your shots will be lit to perfection , every time . the experts know . . . byte magazine reviewed the svmini - 209 in its november ' 97 issue , and gave the camera the highest rating , five stars . byte says , " . . . it delivers ultra-high quality digital images at a relatively bargain price . " ( the bargain price they ' re talking about is $ 479 . we ' re offering $ 100 + savings over the bargain price . ) to learn more about this outstanding camera , and for a comprehensive discussion of its features , ( and to order ! ) follow the link below : http : / / 207 . 13 . 239 . 101 / cgi-bin / rtr ? 91byvpm1scp9pdbo3lc0hxy5klcz3c prices for digital cameras span the spectrum . compare its features and benefits with other cameras , and you ' ll find that the svmini - 209 is way more camera for way less cost . compare its features and benefits with the same camera under a popular brand name , and you ' ll find that the svmini - 209 is the identical camera for waaay less cost . thanks for your time ! your friends at skytop sales p . s . digital images have so many fantastic applications : spice up a business proposal or presentation , design a dazzling web site , email photos to friends and family all over the world , create your own photo art using one of the popular graphics programs on the market . the possibilities are endless . . . and with the ultrahigh-quality images of the svmini - 209 in hand , you ' re limited only by your imagination . p . p . s . our agreement with soundvision allows us to sell the svmini - 209 for $ 349 for a limited time only . please act quickly . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this mailing is intended to be of interest to a large audience and to communicate a valuable offer . if you have no interest in this offer , be advised that other valuable promotions will be featured in future mailings which may be of interest to you . however , if you have no desire to receive offers of value from us in the future , please click the link below to remove yourself from our mailing list . http : / / 207 . 13 . 239 . 101 / cgi-bin / rem ? vbanaqeanvsuprqpnpphx copyright 1998 , skytop sales . the information contained in this email message may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or otherwise distributed without the express written consent of skytop sales .
