Subject: we ' re brighter , better and faster than ever !

we ' re brighter , better and faster than ever ! we asked you how you thought the site could be made better - and now we ' ve gone and done it ! we hope that you find the site much quicker and easier to navigate . we are still running many exclusive and exciting competitions and events as you will see below ! breakfast competition - win a trip to thailand for two weeks and take a friend ! to celebrate our new look chris tarrant will be giving two clues to a location on wednesday the 18th and two clues on thursday the 19th . if you can figure out what places chris is talking about , then go to the site to enter the competition . you have to enter all four locations correctly in our e-mail form . if you are the lucky winner you will know on friday morning , as chris will pick the lucky winner before 9am ! but there is more ! you will also be able to see chris live as the whole breakfast show will webcast and between the hours of 8and 9am you ' ll be able to chat to chris live in the chat room ! so join us at : http : / / capitalfm . com drivetime webcast and chat - see foxy present his show and chat to him live from 5 - 5 . 30pm on wednesday the 18th . foxy is a very busy man these days with presenting not only the drivetime show but also the pepsi chart on sundays as well as on channel 5 . to find out all the inside gossip , join us at : http : / / capitalfm . com jackie chan - see him live and request a stunt ! action film hero jackie chan will be live on showtime on thursday the 19th at 7 . 30pm . you can ask him any question you want from the website and why not request that he performs a special stunt just for you ! then watch all of it live as we will be webcasting the whole event . join us for some special kung fu action at : http : / / capitalfm . com billie - chat live with billie on wednesday the 18th at 6pm ! chart topping teen sensation will be here to take all your questions and maybe dish out some advice as well . join us with the number one girl on the number one site at : http : / / capitalfm . com lutricia mcneal - join her for dinner ! she is back with a strong single for christmas . you can see the full video of on the site ! but that is not all ! you can also enter our competition to be one of a select few to have dinner with her ! for our exclusive coverage go to : http : / / capitalfm . com nell mcandrew - chat with the real lara croft on monday nov . 23 at 6pm . nell mcandrew is all action all the time in tombraider iii . to find out what is was like to be the fiercest girl around and film all around the world come ask your questions at : http : / / capitalfm . com rex the runt - watch clips of the new series from the makers of wallace and gromit before you can see it on tv ! and we have an exclusive competition where you can win one of the actual models that were used to make the series ! this and many other incredible animations can be found at : http : / / capitalfm . com in addition to all of that you can win tickets to exclusive screenings , win a part in a panto , request songs for foxys jukebox via e-mail , be part of the tv soap family affairs , win cds and cinema tickets , get the inside scoop on all the stars and much much more . for the bigger , faster , better and improved website , please go to : http : / / capitalfm . com
