Subject: no snow ? ! ? !

to be removed from this mailing list click here congratulations ! you have been selected to enter for a limited time only ! family holiday for 2 adults and 3 children or 4 adults ! if selected you could enjoy : > > > 4 days 3 nights in magical orlando florida , home of disney world where you will enjoy the hospitality of either the comfort suites or holiday inn . have a blast with a free family pass to watermania water park in orlando . you will also receive the orlando " magic card " entitling you to hundreds of dollars worth of discounts in the orlando area ! ! ! ! ! ! > > > > then enjoy 3 days 3 nighs in sunny cocoa beach florida , living it up at the hilton overlooking the atlantic ocean ! ! ! put the kids to bed early . . . . . . and enjoy 2 complimentary adult casino cruise tickets ! ! ! ! ! > > > > a complimentary alamo rental car with unlimited mileage for your stay in florida ( must carry a major credit card for car rental deposit . ) register now to take advantage of this once in a lifetime holiday and if you qualify enjoy . . . . . . . . this special online offer ! ! ! 2 bonus mini vacations > 4 days / 3 nights in beautiful cancun , mexico at the piramides cancun beach resort ! ! > 4 days / 3 nights in nassau , grand bahamas at the marriott crystal palace resort & casino all of this for only $ 678 for 2 adults and 3 children , or 4 adults ! ! ! ! ! ! ( if you do qualify you will need to secure promotional fees on a major credit card to guarantee your travel date . ) register now ! ! ! click here to register ! this is not a contest , lottery , or sweepstakes . you are qualified based on demographics such as age , area you live in , etc . qualified entrants will be contacted by one of our experienced travel representatives with the full details , only one phone call per household . ( all fields must be filled out completely in order to be a valid entry . this info will remain completely confidential ! ) this covers all fees except for any incidentals such as phone , food , gratuities , and hotel taxes which are paid directly to the hotel .
