Subject: fast delivery

subliminally entice any woman to be yours ! guaranteed . we know you may be skeptical , but if you ' re not totally satisfied with your sex life and who you ' re dating you owe it to yourself to visit our web site ( your choice of english or espanol ) at http : / / 208 . 166 . 10 . 22 / and learn how the power of subliminal mind control can change your life . it is simply a fact that sexual impulses can be awakened and greatly intensified by using subliminal commands . we guarantee it ! but , most subliminal enticement tapes do n't work . confused ? take 1 minute , go to http : / / 208 . 166 . 10 . 22 / and read the section entitled " the number 1 reason our tapes work and theirs don ' t ! " to find out why . if nothing else , you ' ll get a good laugh at how downright silly some other tapes are . everything ( and we mean everything ! ) to gain and nothing to lose ! we ' re so sure that our tapes work that every one comes with a 100 % money back guarantee ! now that you know about the hottest tapes on the internet , you have no excuse not to be successful with any woman you choose . if you do n't get the facts , you are cheating yourself out of happiness , romance , great sex and the time of your life ! click here http : / / 208 . 166 . 10 . 22 / millennium creations , llc 520 washington blvd . , suite 287 marina del rey , ca . 90292 310-281 - 6737 to be remove from future mailings , reply to : remove @ inside2000 . com with remove in the subject . please understand that our system has filters and any files larger than 2k , foul language , multiple emails , graphics , and / or attachments within the email or it 's headers will automatically delete your email without removal from our database . only the email address in the from : will be deleted , if you have more than one address , please email us using the email from any account . make sure the email address is the same address we used to send the message or it will not be deleted from our database . you must reply with remove in the subject line , in order to be removed . the contents of the message are never read . thank you .
