Subject: free credit - 60852

if you have bad credit this message could change your life ! if you do not have bad credit , no need to send us a message to remove you from our mailing list , for this offer will only be sent once , so if you are not interested , just delete . we are providing a compiled list of 14 banks , including names , addresses and phone # 's , who offer unsecured visa and mastercards - meaning no security deposit ! for those with bad credit . we also have 6 phone # 's and 2 addresses of businesses who offer signature , business , and personal loans by mail , with absolutely no collateral ! no co-signers ! these loans range from as little as $ 500 to $ 25 , 000 for signature and personal loans and $ 5 , 000 to $ 1 , 000 , 000 for business loans . they are structured at competitive rates with flexible repayment schedules designed for people with bad credit . in addition , we also have 3 phone # 's for bad credit auto financing , a list of 20 banks who offer low interest , low deposit , secured cards and 7 merchant phone # 's for those with no credit , bad credit , or even bankruptcy . and if that was n't enough , a list of 7 merchants who offer computers to people with bankruptcy or no credit with no money down . last but not least , we ' ll include testimonials from those who have had success stories matched with the appropriate lending institutions . this free bonus information is all contained within our " clean up your credit manual " . our manual is a complete step by step instruction on how to correct your credit , just like the professionals do , only we save you hundreds of dollars to do it . our manual will help you restore your credit so that you may once again finance a home , buy a car , or go on that vacation you ' ve always dreamed about . our manual can be purchased for $ 15 . 00 ( $ 1 . 00 of which will be donated to cancer / aids foundations ) . the manual will be sent through e-mail for this amount . ( similiar lists and credit card searches currently run for $ 49 to $ 300 for only a third of the information we have which does n't even mention how to clean up your credit - this information will cost you at least $ 1000 if done by a professional ) if the manual must be sent by regular mail , fax , or check by fax , check by telephone , the cost is $ 20 . 00 because of the additional expense . we are delivering this information cheaply because we were once in your shoes and know how you feel - unfortunately , we must provide for our families therefore , we must exchange this information for money . someday we hope to offer it for nothing . be sure to indicate how you would like to receive your information - email address , fax number , home address , etc . . . . . if you are in a rush for the information and have a checking account please notify us by phone with your name , address and phone # to 1-412 - 886-1151 and we can take your information over the phone or by fax , thereby releasing our credit manual to you instantly via email . please forward these requests on to 1 - 412-886 - 1151 this department processes these requests only ! remember this methods will be an extra $ 5 . 00 because of the additional cost the bank charges us to process this method . we at ekel link have distributive rights with all companies listed in our manual , meaning we have the right to give out their phone # ' s and addresses . therefore , we have permission to publish them as " bonus information " in our " clean up your credit manual " . unless you acquire the same rights we suggest you think twice about selling this information for a profit or giving it away . those currently selling the information without such permission will be notified shortly of their fatal mistake ! - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - summary information please send cash , check or money order to information below . payable to : ekel link send to : ekel link rr # 2 suite 614 - a ruffsdale , pa 15679 . pay review : $ 15 . 00 advance purchase ( meaning you send us the money first i . e . cash , check or money order ) then we will e-mail the manual to you . do n't forget to give us your email address ! $ 20 . 00 advance purchase ( meaning we accept your checking account information by fax or by phone ) then we email you our manual . you must contact us at 1-412 - 886-1151 to do this ! $ 20 . 00 advance purchase ( meaning you send the money first ) then we fax or send you the manual . do n't forget to give us your mailing address or fax phone # ! $ 25 . 00 advance purchase ( meaning we accept your checking account information by fax or phone , call 1 - 412-886 - 1151 ) then we fax or send your our manual through postal mail . void where not legal by law . we are not professional financial consultants . we are not a credit institution or loan service . therefore , we can not offer a loan or a line of credit to you . what you are paying us for is a manual which describes our method of success on cleaning up our credit files . all attempts to clean up credit may vary depending on the efforts and circumstances of each individual . all banks and loan by mail services are responsible and completely liable for their own personal guarantees , we are not . if you decide to do business with any of the listed banks or loan institutions by mail , you agree to forward all questions pertaining to their services to them and not to us . we can and will only answer questions pertaining to the manual which descibes our own personal credit cleaning successes . all other info considered " bonus information " we are not liable for . we are disclosing these statement of claims because of the overwhelming response to answer questions which we have no knowledge or authority to answer . the choice to order is yours - all we know is the information helped us . if you have bad credit and you are looking for an easy route to scam someone else out of money , such as a bank or loan who does you a favor - please do not order from us - we are commited to helping people - not enouraging people to make bad situations worse . any knowledge of such suspicions or information relating to scams will be reported immediately . so if you have had a bad experience on the internet - let us know ! we are pro-actively trying to eliminate such commerce on the internet . in fact , tell us your story , we have just added a new section to our manual called , " never be scammed again " , with the people 's permission , we are including personal stories of bad experiences or " scams " they ' ve had on the internet . so even if you do n't purchase , at least give us your story to help stop such businesses on the internet and protect the consumer . we will answer as many questions as we can , so do n't hesitate to keep in touch . any suggestions or updated information is appreciated and will be rewarded . ( rewards warranted and merited at our discretion ) as we have stated before , this is a one time offer and will only be emailed to you once ! so order now ! $ 15 could change your life drastically as it has ours . thanks for visiting - hope to talk to you soon . good luck and god bless you and your family . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ekel link rr # 2 suite 614 - a ruffsdale , pa 15679 united states 1-412 - 886-1151 p . s . sorry our return email address probably is out of commission because so many rich business men complained about our message and don ' t like to see the small business man help the needy ! therefore , you must either write us or call the number above . thanks again and take care !
