Subject: save money on your phone bill

i hope you do n't object to a complete stranger mailing you this , but i believe this to be an opportunity too good to be missed by anyone . i ' m looking forward to saving money on my phone bill and so can you : - to save money on your phone bill please read this message carefully tcw telecoms direct ltd least cost routing gives you the opportunity to save money on all of your phone bills all of the time . how much will you save ? local calls 15 % regional calls 30 % national calls 30 % international calls 30 % landline to mobile 10 % ( discounts shown are against bt standard rates . rates track bt on a daily basis , for pricing information see bt ) now here comes the best bit - you can save even more every month by referring friends . simply tell your friends about the tcw lcr service . give them your customer number ( located on the top left of your contract when you have become a customer ) ( call 01235 442350 and quote account number de / 184374 to become a customer yourself ) ask your friends to call tcw telecoms direct ltd on 01235 442350 . let tcw telecoms direct ltd do the rest . how will tcw thank you ? you ' ll receive credits for every month that your recommended friends continue to use the tcw service . every month there will be a loyalty referral discount on your bill . the more friends you refer , the greater your monthly credit will become - and yes - this credit is every month . so become a tcw customer now and then call your friends . in time , your phone bill from tcw telecoms direct could read zero ! how do you become a tcw customer ? call tcw telecoms direct ltd on 01235 442350 now and give them the account number de / 184374 - you , me and your friends will soon be saving money on your phone bills - even more so if you all recommend the service to others . good luck and here 's to smaller phone bills for everyone ! ! more details follow for those wishing to know more about how this service works if you are already receiving discounts from bt or your cable operator , you may not see the benefit of using the tcw service as the discounts above may not seem attractive . however , remember that by recommending friends your resultant discounts over bt standard rates could become 100 % every month due to the referral credits appearing on your tcw bill . in other words , by recommending friends you can reduce your tcw bill to zero over time . i have just asked tcw / telecoms direct customer service what happens to calls to numbers such as 0845 that get used for internet access , and apparently these are discounted the same as local calls , i . e . 15 % ( or more when you recommend friends ) . please call them yourself to confirm on 01235 442350 . what is least cost routing ? least cost routing is a system designed to save you money on all your local , regional , national and international calls as well as calls to mobile phones . why is least cost routing allowed to exist ? least cost routing is relatively new in the uk and has come about since the government passed a bill to deregulate the national telephone system . this ended the bt monopoly , allowing tcw telecom direct to offer you a highly competitive service with substantial discounts on your calls . how does it work ? least cost routing works by simply re-routing your calls through tcw 's billing system . it does this via a free " smart box " that attaches to your phone and bt or cable socket . in other words , you keep your existing telephone number , dial as normal , and receive exactly the same high quality service . you will then receive a bill from your existing telephone company for line rental and maybe some specialised calls and another bill ( lower than before ) from tcw for your local , regional , national and international calls as well as calls to mobile phones . your combined bill will , of course be lower . effectively nothing changes , but the total price you pay . the " smart box " is plugged into your existing bt or cable wall socket which is used for the majority of your calls . your phone is then plugged into the " smart box " . you then use your phone as per normal and save money . if there is heavy usage from another extension , you may consider requesting a second smart box . there is no minimum contract period . what will your bill from tcw show ? fully itemised call details with number of calls , type of calls ( local , regional , national , international , mobile ) , duration of calls , cost of each call , how much the calls would have cost without least cost routing .
