Subject: this is scary ! ! !

thirst ! as seen on television " cryptosporidium " is in a neighborhood near you ! this can actually happen that is why they made a television movie about it . they want to educate the public on parasites . parasites are the # 1 silent killer ! we have to do something to protect ourselves from this terrible menace . if you did n't get to see the movie let me just briefly explain what happened and why it is important to do something about it . a very small parasite by the name of " cryptosporidium " , got into the cities reservoir . it contaminated their drinking water and those people who drank the water became ill and many of them died . you see parasites need a " host " to live and multiply . we as humans can become that host . there are many different types of parasites and there are many ways that we can contract them . here are just a few sign of parasites ; chronic fatigue , bodily aches and pains , skin problems , headaches , constipation , arthritis , gas and bloating , loss of appetite , sexual dysfunction , uncontrollable weight , itchy ears , nose and anus , premature aging , forgetfulness , menopause , and pms to mention a few . it is scary to know just how easily it is to get contaminated by a parasite . we can contract them by eating uncooked meat and fish , from vegetables , casual contact , sexual contact , swimming in lakes and streams , we can contract them from our pets and from the air we breathe . these are just a few of the ways . can you even begin to understand the potential danger we are living with each and every day ? you have two choices you can ignore them and let them eat you alive . by doing this you know your ultimate fate . you are headed toward the path of sickness , disease and possibly death . you can however , choose to do something about it now and change all that ! i know the road my family and i are taking . i only hope that you do the same ! if you choose to live a healthier , more productive life , and wish to obtain additional information on what you can do to protect yourself and your loved ones call 1-813 - 677-2217 . this message is brought to you from someone who cares may god bless you !
