Subject: new books : studies in logic , language and information

studies in logic , language and information * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * kanazawa , makoto ( chiba university , japan ) ; learnable classes of categorial grammars ; isbn 1-57586 - 096 - 1 ( paper ) , 1-57586 - 097 - x ( cloth ) , 184 pp . csli publications 1998 : http : / / csli-www . stanford . edu / publications / email : pubs @ roslin . stanford . edu . distributed by cambridge university press . this book investigates learnability of various classes of classical categorial grammars within the gold paradigm of identification in the limit from positive data . two types of learning , learning from structures and learning from flat strings , are considered . the class of k-valued grammars for k = 1 , 2 , 3 . . . , is shown to be learnable both from structures and from strings , while the class of least-valued grammars and the class of least-cardinality grammars are shown to be learnable from structures . in proving these learnable results , crucial use is made of a theorem on the concept known as finite elasticity . the learning algorithms used in this work build on buszkowski and penn 's algorithms for finding categorial grammars from input consisting of functor-argument structures . ginzburg , jonathan ( hebrew university of jerusalem ) , khasidashvili , zurab ( ntt basic research labs , japan ) , vogel , carl ( university of dublin ) , le ' vy , jean - jacques ( ecole polytechnique ) , vallduvi ' , enric ( universitat pompeu fabra ) ; the tbilisi symposium on logic language and computation : selected papers ; isbn : 1-57586 - 098 - 8 ( paper ) , 1-57586 - 099 - 6 ( cloth ) , 376 pp . csli publications 1998 : http : / / csli-www . stanford . edu / publications / email : pubs @ roslin . stanford . edu . distributed by cambridge university press . this volume brings together papers from linguists , logicians and computer scientists from thirteen countries ( armenia , denmark , france , georgia , germany , israel , italy , japan , poland , spain , sweden , uk and usa ) . this collection has two main aims : first to serve as a catalyst for new interdisciplinary developments in language , logic and computation ; and second , to introduce new ideas from the expanded european academic community . spanning a wide range of disciplines , the papers included in this volume cover such topics as formal semantics of natural language , dynamic semantics , channel theory , formal syntax of natural language , formal language theory , corpus-based methods in computational linguistics , computational semantics , syntactic and semantic aspects of lambda-calculus , non-classical logics , and a fundamental problem in predicate logic . the papers that appear in this volume have been selected from those originally presented at the first tbilisi symposium on language , logic and computation that took place in gudauri , the republic of georgia , in october 1995 .
