Subject: salt 9 call for papers

salt 9 - call for papers semantics and linguistic theory ninth annual meeting university of california , santa cruz february 19-21 , 1999 salt 9 invites submissions for 30 - minute presentations ( with 10 additional minutes for discussion ) on any topic in the semantic analysis of natural language emphasizing the connection to linguistic theory . authors should submit 10 copies of abstracts , no more than 2 pages ( 1000 words ) long . authors ' names , address , affiliation , status ( faculty / student ) , phone number and e-mail address , paper title , and list of prior or planned presentations at other conferences should accompany the abstracts on a 3x5 card . e - mail and fax submissions cannot be accepted . deadline for receipt of abstracts is monday , november 2 , 1998 . the program will be announced in december 1998 . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - guidelines : salt does not accept papers that by the time of the conference have appeared or have been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal . preference will be given to presentations not duplicated at other major conferences ( including lsa , nels , wccfl , etc . ) . authors are asked to indicate prior or planned presentations of their papers on the abstract submission card . any person can submit at most one abstract as sole author and a second abstract as co-author or two abstracts as co-author . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - send abstracts to : salt 9 organizing committee department of linguistics university of california , santa cruz 1156 high street santa cruz , ca 95064 usa further announcements will be made as the conference approaches . inquiries are welcome to the address above , or e-mail to salt9 @ ling . ucsc . edu . the conference web site is accessible at http : / / ling . ucsc . edu / salt9 . html proceedings of salt are in general available from books @ plab . dmll . cornell . edu . for the proceedings of salt 2 , write to lingadm @ ling . ohio-state . edu .
