Subject: aiml ' 98 : final call for participation

final call for participation advances in modal logic ' 98 aiml ' 98 october 16-18 , 1998 uppsala university , uppsala sweden about the workshop advances in modal logic is an initiative aimed at presenting an up-to - date picture of the state of the art in modal logic and its many applications . the initiative consists of a workshop series together with volumes based on those workshops . advances in modal logic ' 98 is the second workshop organized as part of this initiative . aiml ' 98 will be held from october 16-18 , 1998 in uppsala , sweden . the workshop is intended for users of modal logic in cognition , computing , and language , as well as for logicians working in the area . scientific program the invited speakers for aiml ' 98 are johan van benthem , max j . cresswell , kit fine , dov m . gabbay , john f . horty , marcus kracht , and rohit parikh . during the workshop there will be a special morning session on modal logic and belief revision ; this session will be chaired by sven ove hansson and sten lindstrom . in addition , there will be a tutorial on explicit modal logic by sergei artemov , as well as 16 contributed papers . the complete scientific program is available at http : / / www . wins . uva . nl / ~ mdr / aiml / aiml98 - program . html . workshop venue aiml ' 98 will be held in the main hall of uppsala university , in the center of uppsala . the city of uppsala is situated in the province uppland in uppsala county . the municipality of uppsala is sweden 's fourth largest municipality , with slightly more than 184 , 000 inhabitants . further information is available at http : / / www . uppsala . se . people arriving by air should get a flight to stokholm arlanda airport . there is a bus from arlanda to uppsala ( number 801 ) every 15 or 30 minutes , depending on the time of day ; the fare is 75 sek . people arriving by train can take commuter trains or ic trains from stockholm , all departing from stokholm central station . registration the normal registration fee ( without accommodation ) is 1000 sek ; the student fee is 400 sek . registration includes access to the workshop , food service , the workshop dinner , as well as copies of the workshop proceedings . to register , please contact rysiek sliwinski by email or fax at the following coordinates : rysiek sliwinski department of philosophy uppsala university e - mail : rysiek . sliwinski @ filosofi . uu . se phone : + 46 18 471 73 51 fax : + 46 18 471 73 70 . to cut costs , the fees can only paid in cash on the spot upon arrival . unfortunately , credit cards can not be accepted . accommodation hotel accommodation will be arranged in various hotels in uppsala . please ask rysiek sliwinski at the above address to help you to arrange accommodation when you register . sponsors aiml ' 98 is generously sponsored by neurotec hochtechnologie gmbh , the computational logic group at illc , university of amsterdam , compulog net network for computational logic , the royal swedish academy of science , and the university of uppsala . further information email enquiries about the practical details of aiml ' 98 should be directed to rysiek . sliwinski @ filosofi . uu . se . information about the aiml initiative can be obtained on the world - wide web at http : / / www . wins . uva . nl / ~ mdr / aiml / .
