Subject: books : uralic

memoires de la societe finno - ougrienne vol . 230 : etelaviron murteen sanaston alkuper . itamerensuomalaista etymologiaa [ the origin of vocabulary in the south estonian dialect . finnic etymology ] by eino koponen . ( isbn 952-5150 - 18 - 6 ) 296 p . eino koponen 's ph . d . thesis provides an etymological inventory of the vocabulary characteristic of the extremely interesting but relatively little-studied south estonian dialect , in order to shed light on finnic historical dialectology . at the same time thought is given to basic issues of finnic etymology and word formation , especially the appearance of new indigenous ( basic ) word stems . lexica societatis fenno - ugricae vol . xxvi . a morphological dictionary of tundra nenets . compiled by tapani salminen . ( publications of the databank for endangered finno - ugrian languages 3 . ) ( isbn 951-9403 - 99 - x ) . 544 p . tundra nenets , with more than 25 , 000 speakers in northernmost russia and western siberia , is the greatest and probably best-known language in the samoyed branch of the uralic language family . this dictionary contains approximately 19 , 000 words selected from the existing major tundra nenets dictionaries . it includes 1 ) a reverse word list with inflectional codes and derivational patterns , 2 ) an index of roots , where derivational patterns are arranged following their base , and 3 ) an alphabetic index . the dictionary completes the author 's monograph on tundra nenets inflection ( appeared in the series " memoires de la societe finno - ougrienne " , vol . 227 , in 1997 ) . lexica societatis fenno - ugricae vol . xxiii . h . paasonens mordwinisches wrterbuch . mordovskij slovar ' h . paasonena . zusammengest . von kaino heikkil . bearb . u . hrsg . von martti kahla . vol . 1 - 5 : 1990-1998 . mordvin , with two standard languages , erzya and moksha , is spoken in western russia by ca . 750 000 people , and forms an interesting link between finnic ( finnish , estonian and their closest relatives ) and the other uralic languages of russia proper . the dictionary of mordvin , based on the great and extremely important material collected by the finnish linguist heikki paasonen and his mordvin helpers between 1889 and 1912 , has now been published by martti kahla , in collaboration with mordvin and german colleagues . the dictionary consists of four volumes , with german and russian translations for every headword . the fifth volume is a russian index ; a german index will appear in the future . for complete backlists see the society 's homepage at http : / / www . helsinki . fi / jarj / sus / e - mail orders to the bookstore " tiedekirja " , tiedekirja @ pp . kolumbus . fi
