Subject: international lexical functional grammar conf

call for papers lfg99 1999 international lexical functional grammar conference 19 july - 21 july 1999 the university of manchester submission receipt deadline : 15 february 1999 url : http : / / lings . ln . man . ac . uk / html / lfg / enquiries : lfg99 @ man . ac . uk the university of manchester is pleased to invite you to participate in lfg99 which will take place from monday , july 19 till wednesday , july 21 1999 at the university of manchester , uk . the conference welcomes work both within the formal architecture of lexical - functional grammar and typological , formal , and computational work within the 's pirit of lfg ' , as a lexicalist approach to language employing a parallel , constraint-based framework . the conference aims to promote interaction and collaboration among researchers interested in nonderivational approaches to grammar , where grammar is seen as the interaction of constraints from multiple dimensions of linguistic substance , including category information , grammatical relations , and semantic information . further information about the syntactic theory lfg can be obtained from : http : / / clwww . essex . ac . uk / lfg / submissions the conference will involve 30 - minute talks , poster / system presentations , and workshops . talks and poster presentations will focus on results from completed as well as ongoing research , with an emphasis on novel approaches , methods , ideas , and perspectives , whether descriptive , theoretical , formal or computational . we particularly welcome papers and suggestions for workshops on a given language area . presentations should describe original , unpublished work . abstracts and papers must be received by february 15 , 1999 , and should be submitted to the program committee chairs at the address given below . for further information or offers of organisational help , contact the local organisers at the address below . poster / system presentations a scheduled session for posters and the demonstration of systems is planned as part of the conference , with the posters also available for viewing at other times throughout the conferece . workshops workshops are a small group of talks ( 2 - 4 ) on a coherent topic that can be expected to generate opposing views and discussion with the broader audience . participants to workshops are usually invited . workshop papers should be distributed in advance among participants and participants should refer to each others approaches . at this point in time , we welcome suggestions for workshops from potential organisers or people with certain interests . suggestions for workshops should be sent to the local organizers at lfg99 @ man . ac . uk . topics that have been mentioned for potential workshops include : - phenomena within a given language area ( such as amerindian ) - field work and linguistic theory - event conceptualization and lexical semantics - constructions / construction grammar and lfg actual workshop topics and participants will be announced later . timetable deadline for workshop proposals : 30 november 1998 deadline for receipt of submissions : 15 february 1999 acceptances sent out : 31 march 1999 conference : 19 july - 21 july 1999 submission specifications people may submit either abstracts or full length papers for refereeing . the advantages of full paper submission are that it allows better assessment of your work and that ( at least for some people ) accepted refereed full papers count as a higher status publication . the program chairs may decide that certain submissions are better as poster presentations than as read papers . submitters may also indicate if they wish a submission to be considered as a poster / system presentation . full length papers . papers should be no more than 15 pages , including figures and references , in 11 or 12pt type , on a4 / us letter paper . the printed text area must not exceed 165x230mm ( 6 . 5x9 inches ) , and should be centred horizontally and vertically on the page . omit name and affiliation , and obvious self reference from the version for review . papers should include a roughly 100-200 word abstract at the beginning . abstracts . abstracts should be one a4 page in 10pt or larger type and include a title . omit name and affiliation , and obvious self reference . a second page may be used for data , c - / f - and related structures , and references . papers / abstracts may be submitted by email or by regular mail ( or by both means as a safety measure ) . email submission is preferred . regular mail include : - five copies of the abstract / paper . - a card or cover sheet with the paper title , name ( s ) of the author ( s ) , affiliation , address , phone / fax number , e-mail address , and whether the author ( s ) are students . email . include or attach your paper as either a plain ascii text , html , or postscript file . include the paper title , name ( s ) of the author ( s ) , address , phone / fax number , email address , and whether the author ( s ) are students in the body of your email message . all papers / abstracts will be reviewed by at least two people . papers will appear in the proceedings which will be published online by csli publications . selected papers may also appear in a printed volume published by csli publications . organisers and their contact addresses send paper / abstract / poster submissions and inquiries about submissions to : program committee chairs : tracy king < thking @ parc . xerox . com > miriam butt < miriam . butt @ uni-konstanz . de > mail : tracy holloway king information sciences and technologies laboratory xerox parc 3333 coyote hill road palo alto ca 94304 usa contact the conference organisers at : email : lfg99 @ man . ac . uk mail : kersti borjars or nigel vincent department of linguistics university of manchester manchester m13 9pl uk associated events given the great success of the pre-conference bushwalk organized as part of lfg98 , we are planning an organised walk in the peak district for the weekend preceding the conference . details and information on how to sign up for it will be provided in a subsequent call for papers . on the last evening of the conference there will be a conference dinner in a stately home on the outskirts of manchester . location the conference will be held at hulme hall , a hall of residence near the main university buildings . different types of b&b accommodation will be available in hulme hall , where all lectures , book displays etc will also take place . details of this and registration form will be provided at a later stage .
