Subject: acl-99 call for theme proposals

call for theme proposals acl-99 conference : the 37th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics university of maryland june 22 - - 27 1999 the association for computational linguistics would like to encourage the submission of papers on substantial , original , and unpublished research on all aspects of computational linguistics . a particular aim for the 1999 conference is a broadening of both the thematic coverage and geographical origin of submissions ; to this end , we are experimenting with a new format . some proportion of the conference will be given over to special sessions , somewhat like a special issue of a journal , organised around themes proposed by members of the nlp community . our aim is to incorporate some of the intensity and excitement of the traditional post-conference workshops , without replacing those workshops - - - we expect , as has become traditional , that there will also be a set of post-conference workshops that will remain separate from the main meeting . this call invites proposals for thematic sessions in accordance with the considerations below ; a final call for papers will be sent out in early november . what is a thematic session ? we are soliciting proposals for themes that will provide 4 - - 8 high quality papers , typically forming one or two sessions in the main conference . proposers of accepted themes , who will become the chairs of those sessions , will have similar responsibilities to those of workshop organisers in terms of arranging reviewing and the delivery of camera ready copy ; however , the papers will be scheduled as part of the main sessions and will be published as part of the main conference proceedings . in terms of subject area coverage , we expect thematic sessions will be closer to workshop topic areas in focus . format of theme proposals please specify the following : - chair details : name , address , email , telephone number , fax - title - summary : at most one page describing the proposed subject area , citing evidence that there is sufficient interest in the area to generate enough high quality submissions to populate up to a half-day 's worth of presentations . - proposed review committee : each paper submitted should be reviewed by at least three people . as part of your proposal , you should suggest a potential review committee of around 12 people who will be asked to serve on the committee if the proposal is accepted . your list should demonstrate the spread of interest in the area in the community , encouraging both international participation and the participation of a broad range of researchers , including both senior members of the community and graduate students . theme proposals should be submitted to the email address provided below . informal enquiries as to what might work as a theme can also be directed to this address in advance of the submission date . possible themes might be topics like : nlp and data mining ; word segmentation in asian languages ; reconciling functional and formal approaches to syntax ; approaches to concept to speech . we provide these examples only as indications of the variety of topic areas that will be considered . important dates this call issued : september 14 , 1998 theme submissions deadline : october 12 , 1998 notification of selected themes : october 26 , 1998 call for papers : early november 1998 paper submissions deadline : january 25 , 1999 notification of acceptance : march 22 , 1999 camera ready papers due : may 3 , 1999 general submission questions chairs for the acl-99 program are ken church and robert dale . all queries regarding the program should be sent to acl99 @ mri . mq . edu . au ; this forwards to both authors . submission format theme proposals should be of approximately two pages in length , ideally submitted in ascii by email to acl99 @ mri . mq . edu . au with the subject : " acl99 theme proposal " . more complicated formats such as standalone latex ( not requiring additional style files ) , postscript , and word will be accepted if they print on the first try . hardcopy proposals should be faxed or mailed to * both * of the chairs , clearly labeled " acl99 theme proposal " . proposals should be received by 5pm gmt on october 12th 1998 . ken church ( co - chair ) robert dale ( chair ) at&t labs - research microsoft research institute 180 park ave , office d235 school of mpce po box 971 macquarie university florham park , nj 07932-0971 , usa sydney nsw 2109 , australia kwc @ research . att . com robert . dale @ mq . edu . au tel : + 1 973-360 - 8620 tel : + 61 2 9850 6331 fax : + 1 973-360 - 8077 fax : + 61 2 9850 9529
