Subject: speech acts / dialogue moves

first call for papers amstelogue ' 99 amsterdam workshop on the semantics and pragmatics of dialogue may 7 - 9 , 1999 university of amsterdam invited speakers : hans kamp hannes rieser to be announced * * amstelogue ' 99 will be a sequel to the successful dialogue workshops mundial ' 97 ( muenchen ) and twendial ' 98 ( twente ) . like its predecessors , amstelogue ' 99 aims at bringing together researchers from different fields on the topic of semantics and pragmatics of dialogue . these fields include artificial intelligence , formal semantics / pragmatics and computational / applied linguistics . in order to increase the cohesion of the talks in the workshop , we put forward the over-all topic < i > speech acts / dialogue moves < / i > . the workshop will be organised around the following three themes : i formal semantics of dialogue this covers topics such as models of common ground / mutual belief , the semantics of goals , intentions and commitments in communication , treatment of dialogue moves in a formal semantic framework , the semantics of cross-speaker anaphora . ii dialogue systems this covers e . g . knowledge representation for multi-agent interaction , dialogue management in practical implementations , semantics and pragmatics of natural language in automated dialogue systems . iii dialogue analysis ( empirical ) this covers topics such as turn-taking , categorisation of dialogue moves or speech acts in real ( i . e . , non-constructed ) dialogues , aspects of institutional interaction , characteristics of multi-participant conversations , the role of nonlinguistic interaction in communication . - in order to increase the cohesion of the talks across the three themes , we put forward , in addition , the over-all topic speech acts / dialogue moves . * * the collected abstracts of the talks will be provided as workshop proceedings at the start of the workshop . we are negotiating a special issue of the journal of semantics for publishing a selection of the papers . * * related event : the day before the workshop , 6 may , will be occupied to the trindi - project workshop . further information will be made available via our website . procedure : anyone who is working on the semantics or pragmatics of dialogue is kindly invited to send us a 5 page abstract in latex or ascii ( talks will be 45 minutes ) on one of the above mentioned topics , or a related topic . please indicate for what theme you are opting . abstracts clearly relating to the over-all topic of speech acts will be preferred . deadline : 1 february 1999 send to : amstelog @ ai . hum . uva . nl * * organisation : noor van leusen , dept . of computational linguistics , u . v . a , noor @ ai . let . uva . nl robert van rooy , dept . of philosophy , u . v . a , vanrooy @ philo . uva . nl henk zeevat , dept . of computational linguistics , u . v . a , henk @ ai . let . uva . nl more information on website : http : / / earth . hum . uva . nl / ~ amstelog sponsors : dutch research school in logic dutch research foundation
