Subject: workshop on analogy

workshop advances in analogy research : integration of theory and data from the cognitive , computational , and neural sciences sofia , july 17-20 , 1998 aims : this workshop is intended to stimulate the researchers in the field of analogy to cooperate more intensively and to integrate various approaches and data in their study . its aim is to advance our understanding of the cognitive mechanisms of analogy-making , i . e . how people notice / perceive analogies , how they retrieve analogs from memory or how they construct them , how they map and transfer knowledge from one domain to another , how they combine knowledge from multiple analogs or how they combine analogy with rule-based reasoning , how they generalize and learn from the analogies made , how they use analogies for problem solving , explanation , argumentation , creation . what is the place of analogy among the various cognitive processes , such as perception , thinking , memory , learning , etc . what is the role of analogy in human development ? which are the brain structures involved in analogy-making processes ? what kind of deficits do brain-damaged patients exhibit ? this workshop will be highly interdisciplinary and will make a serious attempt to integrate the knowledge researchers have accumulated on analogy-making in various domains : artificial intelligence / computational modeling , cognitive psychology , developmental psychology , neuropsychology , philosophy , cognitive linguistics , as well as various applications in education , legal and political reasoning , etc . a serious attempt will be made to integrate all the positive results obtained so far in theories of analogy-making , computational modeling , and experimental work . the workshop participants will participate in numerous formal and informal discussions which we hope will lead to systematization of the knowledge in the field , formulating established facts , open issues , and ideas for new approaches . format of the workshop : the workshop will consist of key talks ( 45 min ) ( see the list of key talks ) , short papers ( 20 min ) , poster presentations , round table thematic discussions , working group sessions , informal discussions , concluding discussions on ideas for future work and cooperative projects . pre - proceedings of the workshop ( containing all the accepted papers ) will be published in advance and distributed to the participants , so that we can focus on discussions and joint work at the workshop . submission instructions paper and poster submissions should be made both electronically ( in rtf format ) and in hard copy ( a4 or us letter ( 11 " x 8 . 5 " ) paper format ) following these instructions . papers should be no more than 8 pages long , poster abstracts - one page . the text should be formatted in two columns with an overall width of 14 cm and length of 20 cm , with 0 . 7 cm between the columns . use 10 point times roman with 11 point vertical spacing , unless otherwise specified . the title should be 14 point , bold , centered , 0 . 5 cm below the top margin . authors ' names should be in 11 point , bold , and centered ; authors ' affiliation , postal address , and e-mail address should be in ordinary 10 point , centered . first - level headings should be 12 point , bold , initial caps , and centered . second - level headings should be 11 point , initial caps , bold , and flush left . third - level headings should be 10 point , bold , initial caps , and flush left . use standard apa citation format , e . g . ( mcclelland & rumelhart , 1981 ) . send your submissions electronically to analogy @ cogs . nbu . acad . bg and my regular mail to : boicho kokinov - analogy ' 98 cognitive science department new bulgarian university 21 , montevideo str . sofia 1635 , bulgaria timetable deadline for workshop registration - march 1st , 1998 deadline for submission of papers - march 1st , 1998 deadline for poster abstracts - march 20th , 1998 notification of acceptance - april 15th , 1998 invited participants ' deadline for papers - june 1st , 1998 publication of the workshop proceedings - june 30th , 1998 workshop - july 17-20 , 1998 , ( arrival 16th , departure 21st ) participants and funding participation in the workshop is mainly by invitation to ensure high quality and balance of representatives of various schools of thought , of various disciplines , of various countries and continents . the organizers hope that all these schools and geographic regions will be represented . the following list of invitees is provisional and open for additions . the workshop is , however , open to other participants as well , up to the upper limit of 50 participants . the organizers are looking for some funding which would allow us to support some of the participants for their participation in the workshop . however , as this is still uncertain , we would like to kindly ask the potential participants to look for their own funding sources and to try to ensure their participation in advance . co - events the workshop will take place during the 5th international summer school in cognitive science ( july 13-25 , 1998 ) which will offer an opportunity to have external critics and advisors from well known researchers working in other areas of cognitive science . location sofia is an old city first established by the thracians about 4000bc . there are still some ruins from the old roman time city . the national history museum holds some fascinating gold treasures from thracian times . there is a small church with frescos from the 12th century painted in a realistic renaissance style a long time before the renaissance in europe started . not very far from sofia is the beautiful rila monastery as well as some old towns like plovdiv ( with an old town part and a roman amphitheater ) and koprivstitza . you may also want to combine your trip with a holyday at the black sea side . organizing committee : dedre gentner ( northwestern univ . , usa ) gentner @ nwu . edu - co - director keith holyoak ( univ . of california at los angeles , usa ) holyoak @ lifesci . ucla . edu edu - co - director boicho kokinov ( new bunlgarian univ . , bulgaria ) kokinov @ cogs . nbu . acad . bg edu - co - director robert french ( univ . of liege , belgium ) rfrench @ ulg . ac . be erica melis ( univ . of saarland , germany ) melis @ cs . uni-sb . de list of key talks umberto eco - ( not confirmed yet ) douglas hofstadter - analogy as the core of cognition keith holyoak - the place of analogy in a physical symbol system dedre gentner - comparison and cognition gilles fauconnier - analogy and conceptual integration jaime carbonell - analogy in problem solving , from the routine to the creative boicho kokinov - analogy is like cognition : complex , emergent , context - sensitive mark keane - why conceptual combination is seldom analogy david premack - analogies in chimpanzees andy meltzoff - the origins and early development of analogy in the preverbal period usha goswami - analogical reasoning in children graeme halford - the problem of structural complexity in cognitive processes : a metric based on representational rank ken forbus - qualitative mental models : simulations or memories ? paul thagard - emotional analogies james hampton - analogy is like categorization : thoughts on the role of conceptual structure in analogical reasoning adam biela - analogical resoning as a base for structuring cognitive schemata in new situations : a case of economic transformation in post - communist countries list of invited participants ron ferguson ( northwestern university , usa ) ferguson @ ils . nwu . edu ken kurtz ( northwestern university , usa ) kjk @ nwu . edu arthur markman ( columbia university , usa ) markman @ paradox . psych . columbia . edu john hummel ( ucla , usa ) jhummel @ lifesci . ucla . edu richard catrambone ( georgia institute of technology , usa ) rc7 @ prism . gatech . edu charles wharton ( national institutes of health , usa ) wharton @ codon . nih . gov barbara spellman ( u . of virginia , usa ) spellman @ psyvax . psy . utexas . edu laura novick ( vanderbilt university , usa ) novicklr @ ctrvax . vanderbilt . edu mary jo rattermann ( hampshire , usa ) mratter1 @ swarthmore . edu judy deloache ( u . of illinois , usa ) jdeloach @ [ s . psych . ] uiuc . edu manuela veloso ( cmu , usa ) mmv @ cs . cmu . edu david leake ( indiana university , usa ) leake @ cs . indiana . edu robert goldstone ( indiana university , usa ) rgoldsto @ ucs . indiana . edu jim marshall ( indiana university , usa ) marshall @ cogsci . indiana . edu brian bowdle ( indiana university , usa ) bbowdle @ indiana . edu melanie mitchell ( santa fe institute , usa ) mm @ santafe . edu miriam bassok ( u . of washington , usa ) mbassok @ u . washington . edu roger thompson ( franklin & marshall college , lancaster , pa , usa ) r _ thompson @ acad . fandm . edu nancy nersessian ( georgia tech , usa ) nancyn @ cc . gatech . edu john clement ( university of massachusets , ma , usa ) jclement @ educ . umass . edu eve sweetser ( uc berkeley , usa ) sweetser @ cogsci . berkeley . edu adele goldberg ( ucsd , usa ) aegoldberg @ ucsd . edu lokendra shastri ( uc berkeley , usa ) schastri @ icsi . berkeley . edu thomas ward ( texas a&m university , usa ) tbw @ psyc . tamu . edu ronald finke ( texas a&m university , usa ) raf @ psyc . tamu . edu jim herriot ( sun , usa ) jim . herriot @ eng . sun . com cameron shelley ( u . of waterloo , canada ) cpshelle @ watarts . uwaterloo . ca bipin indurkhya ( tokyo university of agriculture and technology , japan ) bipin @ cc . tuat . ac . jp hiroaki suzuki ( aoyama gakuin university , japan ) susan @ ri . aoyama . ac . jp tony plate ( victoria u of wellington , new zealand ) tony . plate @ mcs . vuw . ac . nz pentti kanerva ( sics , sweden ) kanerva @ sics . se robert french ( university of liege , belgium ) rfrench @ ulg . ac . be john a barnden ( university of birmingham , uk ) < j . a . barnden @ cs . bham . ac . uk > michael ramscar ( university of edinburgh , uk ) michael @ aisb . ed . ac . uk bruce burns ( u . of potsdam , germany ) burns @ persius . rz . uni-potsdam . de friedrich wilkening ( u . of tuebingen , germany ) wilk @ mailserv . zdv . uni-tuebingen . de friedrich . wilkening @ uni-tuebingen . de michael waldmann ( max - planck institute of psychological research in munich , germany ) waldmann @ mpipf-muenchen . mpg . de meredith gattis ( max - planck institute of psychological research in munich , germany ) gattis @ mpipf-muenchen . mpg . de erica melis ( univ . of saarland , germany ) melis @ cs . uni-sb . de cristina cacciari ( university of bologna , italy ) cacciari @ psibo . unibo . it stella vosniadou ( university of athens , greece ) svosniad @ atlas . uoa . ariadne-t . gr merry bullock ( university of vilnus , estonia ) mxb . apa @ email . apa . org , merry @ vm . ee maciej haman ( university of warsaw , poland ) meh @ sci . psych . uw . edu . pl dan simon ( haifa university , israel ) dsimon @ research . haifa . ac . il
