Subject: book : corpus linguistics : an introduction to

an introduction to corpus linguistics graeme kennedy , professor of applied linguistics at victoria university of wellington . pbk 0 582 23154 x hbk 0 582 23153 1 328 pages 1998 studies in language and linguistics series longman - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this book provides a comprehensive introduction and guide to corpus linguistics . all aspects of the field are explored , from the various types of electronic corpora that are available to instructions on how to design and compile a corpus . graeme kennedy surveys the development of corpora for use in linguistic research , looking back to the pre-electronic age as well as to the massive growth of computer corpora in the electronic age . the study focuses primarily on corpus-based descriptions of english : lexis , morphology , syntax and variation . it includes a wide-ranging overview of the published research of corpus linguists to illustrate the results and potential of distributional analyses of english . the section on corpus analysis describes the methodology and procedures that are generally employed including lemmatization , tagging , parsing and the use of important search and retrieval software to produce word-lists , concordances and other analyses . the final section of the book discusses ways in which the corpus-based analysis of languages may contribute to linguistic theory , the description of languages , computational linguistics and language teaching . an introduction to corpus linguistics " will appeal to all involved in the study of language , from english language teachers and students of linguistics to those already involved in research in this fast-growing field . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - further information on the books published in this series , and the table of contents for this title can be viewed at the longman linguistics on-line catalogue at : http : / / www . awl-he . com / linguistics for a complete listing of our world-wide offices , please click below : http : / / www . awl-he . com / offices
