Subject: terminology and knowledge engineering

last call for papers ( deadline for submissions : 30 november 1998 ) 5th international congress on terminology and knowledge engineering tke 99 innsbruck ( austria ) 23-27 august 1999 organized by association for terminology and knowledge transfer ( gtw ) international information centre for terminology ( infoterm ) international network for terminology ( termnet ) http : / / gtw-org . uibk . ac . at / tke . html general considerations on behalf of the association for terminology and knowledge transfer - gesellschaft fr terminologie und wissenstransfer ( gtw ) - we are pleased to announce the 5th international congress on terminology and knowledge engineering tke ' 99 which will be held on the campus of the university of innsbruck , austria , between 23-27 august , 1999 . in continuation of the first four tke congresses in trier ( 1987 and 1990 ) , cologne ( 1993 ) and vienna ( 1996 ) , tke ' 99 will address world-wide interests in the interdisciplinary methods of terminology science , information science , computer science . it should furthermore help achieve the " universal availability of information and knowledge " via computerized methods , multimedia content-oriented net applications and other tools , open new horizons for more efficient applications based upon this integration of methodologies and elicit the interest and participation of experts working in the fields that are gradually drawing nearer from the point of theory and methodology such as * knowledge engineering * language engineering * computational philosophy * classification theory * information & documentation * computer - assisted instruction / learning * computerised terminography * specialized translation * technical writing * culture - related aspects of terminology tke ' 99 will address world-wide interests in the interdisciplinary methods of terminology studies , information science and computer science . it will help achieve the " universal availability of information and knowledge " via computerized methods , multimedia content-oriented net applications and other tools as well as open new horizons for more efficient applications based upon this integration of methodologies . tke 99 will also elicit the interest and participation of experts working in the fields that are gradually drawing nearer from the point of theory and methodology . general schedule while monday and tuesday are reserved for workshops , the main conference with parallel sections and the exhibition will be held from wednesday to friday . the conference starts with a general opening on wednesday morning . the keynote address " conceptual navigation in multimedia knowledge spaces " will be held by prof . kim veltman from the renowned european mcluhan institute for digital culture in maastricht . the second international infoterm award for applied research and development in the field of terminology ( terminology ard award 1999 ) will be awarded in conjunction with the tke 99 . there will also be the 13th gtw general assembly , meetings of the iitf , termnet and a tdcnet presentation . a high-ranking multimedia summit is planned for the day after the tke . sections the conference is subdivided into sections and workshops . the first will address theoretical problems and questions regarding each topic whereas the workshops cater for more application-oriented issues . the following sections are planned for tke ' 99 ; the persons mentioned are organizers and members of the reviewing panel . the keywords ( key ) should help to define the topics of each section . section 1 : philosophy of science and terminology studies e . oeser , g . budin key : knowledge theory , logic , epistemology , ontology , cognitive science , semiotics , fundamentals of computational philosophy section 2 : knowledge resource management kd . schmitz , s . e . wright , i . meyer key : knowledge data modelling , information management , knowledge rich terminology data bases , terminology and other data interchange , encyclopedic knowledge , reference tools , copyright issues , terminology and knowledge data extraction section 3 : knowledge transfer by specialist communication h . picht , s . shelov , j . graham key : specialized languages , knowledge and technology transfer section 4 : terminology in multimedia , education and training c galinski , k . prochazka , t . cabr i castellvi , h . sonneveld key : multi / hypermedia teaching and training , call , re-usability of language resources for textbooks and other teaching materials , scientific and technical writing , tele - and online teaching , new media and www didactics section 5 : terminology , localisation and internationalization a . melby , s . e . wright , k . h . freigang key : software localisation , technical documentation , user interfaces , usability validation and testing , liability issues , distributed cooperative authoring via the internet , unicode and www , language data in non - european scripts , interface between product data in td and cad / cam as well as inventory control , new technologies ( e . g . thin film displays , ' intelligent ' textiles etc . ) , quality management and terminology section 6 : terminology in new world wide web applications k . ahmad , f . mayer , c . plested alvarez key : preparation , representation and distribution of terminology and knowledge through the www , e-commerce , database and online publishing , global engineering networks ( gen ) , ipr issues , liability issues , knowledge management in virtual enterprises , definition of smallest knowledge units ( for accounting etc . ) section 7 : terminology in the multilingual information society c . lauren , y . arsky , j . myking key : human translation , terminology in plurilingual settings , multilingualism policies / strategies , language policies in enterprises , internationalization and globalisation , terminology documentation networks , european multilingual information society , global information alliance . section 8 : culture in the multimedia information society h . benking , a . goppold , g . budin key : multimodality of contents , indexing of cultural information , multidimensional classification of culture information , distribution and marketing of cultural information through the internet , culture and multimedia technology : bidirectional impacts , influence of esthetics on mm technology and database modelling , terminology in cultural information systems , culture-specific concepts in cross-culture communication , terminological methodology for multilingual culture encyclopedia design and publishing submitted papers the overall time for presentations including time for discussion will be 30 minutes . the papers may be presented in english , german or french while the submitted written version for the proceedings should be in english . according to the time schedule above some 50 papers ( including the keynote speech at the general opening and the second keynote address on thursday morning ) will be presented at tke ' 99 . the abstracts should be sent preferably by e-mail ( peter . sandrini @ uibk . ac . at ) , a submission form is available on the tke home page at http : / / gtw-org . uibk . ac . at / tke . html , by mail or by fax . authors are asked to provide an abstract of their papers to the organizer by 30 november 1998 , at the latest . the abstract undergoes a reviewing process carried out by the programming committee and the section organizers . by the end of january 1999 the authors will be informed about the acceptance of their papers . they will have time until 30 march 1999 to submit the full version , which will be processed for publication in the proceedings and printed prior to the congress . proceedings the proceedings of tke ' 99 will be published in advance by termnet . there will be one volume of the proceedings including all papers in topic order . the proceedings will be available for the participants at the beginning of the congress . workshops workshops within the framework of the congress are held on monday and tuesday . several workshops in correspondence with the section topics either with a more application-oriented or research-oriented emphasis are planned . exhibition within the framework of the general tke conference an exhibition / fair will be organized from wednesday through friday and coordinated by termnet . the conditions for exhibitors will be available from termnet . location the workshops on monday and tuesday as well as the congress itself are planned to be held in the rooms of the university of innsbruck . detailed plans for venues , lunches , exhibition etc . will be given later . tke youth forum students and young graduates interested in terminology and knowledge engineering will be welcome to the tke conference and a special package ( tke youth forum ) will be available which comprises : reduced congress fee reduced workshop fee admission to the youth forum this special package applies to students and graduates with a degree not older than three years . a photocopy of the student id or passport is required . congress fees detailed information on congress fees will be given in the program to be printed and distributed at the beginning of 1999 . for the speakers accepted , a reduction of 50 % will be allowed . conference participants requesting a reduced fee will have to provide adequate proof . programming committee : khurshid ahmad , university of surrey ( great britain ) yuri arsky , viniti ( russia ) heiner benking , universitt ulm ( germany ) gerhard budin , universitt wien ( austria ) teresa cabr i castellvi , universitat pompeu fabra , barcelona ( spain ) karl - heinz freigang , universitt des saarlandes , saarbrcken ( germany ) christian galinski , infoterm , vienna ( austria ) andreas goppold , universitt ulm ( germany ) john d . graham , deutscher terminologietag e . v . ( germany ) jiao yunqi , csicci ( china ) christer lauren , university of vasa ( finland ) felix mayer , europische akademie bozen ( italy ) alan k . melby , brigham young university , provo ( usa ) ingrid meyer , university of ottawa ( canada ) johan myking , bergen ( norway ) erhard oeser , universitt wien , vienna ( austria ) heribert picht , handelshojskolen i kobenhavn , copenhagen ( denmark ) cecilia plested alvarez , universidad de antioquia ( colombia ) kurt prochazka , tgm ( austria ) peter sandrini , universitt innsbruck ( austria ) klaus - dirk schmitz , fachhochschule kln , cologne ( germany ) sergey d . shelov , committee for scientific terminology in fundamental research ( russia ) helmi sonneveld , eaft ( netherlands ) sue ellen wright , kent - state - university , ohio ( usa ) organizing committee christian galinski , infoterm , vienna ( austria ) klaus - dirk schmitz , fachhochschule kln , cologne ( germany ) peter sandrini , universitt innsbruck ( austria ) hideshiro nakamoto , iris , tokyo ( japan ) irmgard rieder , universitt innsbruck ( austria ) roberta schwarz , termnet ( austria ) supporting organisations : international institute for terminology research ( iitf ) german terminology society ( dtt ) european association for terminology ( eaft ) tdc - net consortium - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - pre - registrations : tyrol congress gmbh rennweg 3 , a-6020 innsbruck tel . + 43 + 512 / 575600 fax : + 43 + 512 / 575607 email : tyrol . congress @ tirol . com - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - contributions and abstracts : gesellschaft fr terminologie und wissenstransfer ( gtw ) universitt innsbruck fischnalerstr . 4 a-6020 innsbruck ( austria ) tel . + 43 512 507 4261 fax + 43 512 507 2966 http : / / gtw-org . uibk . ac . at email : peter . sandrini @ uibk . ac . at - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - peter sandrini institut fuer uebersetzen und dolmetschen tel + 43 0512 507 4261 der universitaet innsbruck ( austria ) fax " 2966
