Subject: workshop on language change in japan and east asia

call for papers workshop on language change in japan and east asia university of sheffield , uk 21st - 23rd may 1999 deadline : all submissions must be received by january 10 , 1999 . this workshop aims to provide a forum for presenting research on language change in japanese and other east asian languages ( chinese , korean ) , putting language change in the individual languages into a broader east asian context . we especially encourage presentations which investigate more than one language . potential topics include , but are not limited to : emergence of vernacular vs classical language , historical phonology , japanese - korean - altaic relationship , historical syntax , neologism , loanwords , english influence , standardisation and the fate of dialects or minority languages , role of kanji , etc . abstracts submitted must represent original , unpublished research . presentations will be 20 minutes long , plus 10 minutes for questions and discussion . please submit : 1 ) a clearly titled 1 page abstract for review . examples and references may be given on a second page . if your paper is accepted , this abstract will be included in the conference handbook . no changes in the title or the authors ' names will be possible after acceptance . 2 ) for each author , one copy of the information form printed at the bottom of this message . please include a self-addressed , stamped postcard for acknowledgment of receipt . notice of acceptance or rejection will be sent by march , 1999 . pre - registration materials and a preliminary programme schedule will also be available in march , 1999 . it is anticipated that a volume based on papers presented at the workshop will be published . send submissions to : workshop on language change in japan and east asia school of east asian studies university of sheffield floor 5 , arts tower western bank sheffield s10 2tn telephone : + 44-114 - 222-8400 fax : + 44-114 - 222-8432 e - mail : t . e . mcauley @ sheffield . ac . uk email submission of abstracts is encouraged . author information form ( one to be filled out completely for each author ) title : topic area : audio - visual equipment requests : full name : affiliation : contact address : email address : contact telephone number :
