Subject: semantics

we would like to inform the members of linguist that a new book called semantiques , under the direction of michel chambreuil , has just been published in french by hermes . ( ben gharbia , bernigot , chambreuil , gamallo , panissod , reinberger ( 1998 ) , semantiques . paris , hermes . ) abstract : what can be , today , the object of the semantics of natural languages ? what hypotheses can be advanced on the entities associated to linguistic expressions , and on the operations involved in the processing of complex expressions ? implicit or explicit , these questions are present in all theoretical research on the semantics of natural language . by the analysis of different linguistic theories , following a similar outline for each of them , this book permits a critical reflection on these questions . it also aims at making the current research in which these theories are present more accessible for the reader . moreover , this research , by considering issues on the dynamics of the processing of information , its contextualisation , and the fundamental cognitive abilities of the speaker , is also in line with broader issues concerning , for instance , different domains of computer science or also cognitive sciences . the different theories dealt with are first order predicate logic , intensional semantics , boolean semantics , general semantics ( vanderveken ) , dynamic semantics , situation theory and cognitive grammar . the authors of this book , who are linguists , computer scientists , mathematicians , are members of the group of semantics of the laboratory of research on language ( lrl ) of the university blaise pascal , clermont ii . their research concerns the analysis of fundamental semantic principles , from specific issues such as : conceptual combination , coordination , quantification . michel chambreuil , mathematician and linguist , is professor at the university blaise pascal , clermont - ferrand , france . this book can be ordered : - on www . editions-hermes . fr , - or at the following adress : 8 , quai du march - neuf - 75004 paris - france , - or by fax ( 01 53 10 15 21 ) , - or by e-mail : hermes @ iway . fr
