Subject: logic and natural language semantics

esslli-99 workshop : foundations of intensional logic and natural language semantics call for papers the main focus of the european summer schools in logic , language and information is the interface between linguistics , logic and computation . it is organized under the auspices of the european association for logic , language and information ( folli ) . foundational , introductory and advanced courses together with workshops cover a wide variety of topics within six areas of interest : logic , computation , language , logic and computation , computation and language , language and logic . previous summer schools have been highly successful , attracting around 500 students from europe and elsewhere . the school has developed into an important meeting place and forum for discussion for students and researchers interested in the interdisciplinary study of logic , language and information . esslli-99 will take place at the university of utrecht , the netherlands , august 9-20 . in its first week it will feature a worskshop on foundations of intensional logic and natural language semantics . its aim is to provide a forum for advanced ph . d . students and other researchers to present and discuss their work on the following issues . intensional logic lies at the heart of a montague - style natural language semantics . it involves a representation of properties , relations and propositions ( prps ) . in traditional montague grammar , prps are characterized in terms of possible worlds , and the logico-semantic paradoxes are avoided by using a russellian hierarchy of types . the problems with this traditional approach ( e . g . , logical omniscience and expressive limitations ) have led to the flourishing of more fine - grained notions of prp , and to type-free solutions to the paradoxes ( gupta and belnap , barwise and etchemendy , cocchiarella , bealer , asher and kamp , chierchia and turner , etc . ) . the new approaches have problems of their own and no new framework has become standard . this workshop thus will explore and compare well - known or newly proposed foundational approaches for an intensional logic that can serve the purposes of natural language semantics . if you are interested in presenting your research , please send a two page abstract to : francesco orilia orilia @ unimc . it dipartimento di filosofia e scienze umane ph . + 39 ( 0733 ) 258 305 universit = e0 di macerata fax + 39 ( 0733 ) 235 339 62100 macerata italy the submission deadline is : march 15 , 1999 . workshop speakers will pay a reduced essli-99 registration fee , which will entitle them to attend all other courses and workshops . it may be possible to allocate a sum of about 100 ecu to partially cover the expenses of each workshop speaker . there will soon be an esslli ' 99 web page at : http : / / esslli . let . uu . nl / .
