Subject: isfc ' 99

isfc99 - - the 26th systemic functional institute and congress department of english language & literature national university of singapore institute : 22-24 july 1999 congress : 26-30 july 1999 theme : linguistics and education on entering the 21st century the institute the three day institute preceding the congress offers courses in the theory and practice of systemic functional linguistics ( sfl ) by leading figures within the field . for those who are not familiar with the model , the courses can provide the necessary background for the congress which is to follow . the major themes that will be treated at the institute include grammar , discourse , sociolinguistics , education , literature , information technology and computational methods . the congress the congress will bring together systemic functional linguists and those interested in finding out more about the ever increasing range of applications of sfl . with the 26th international systemic functional congress ( isfc99 ) being held in singapore , we extend a specially warm welcome to australian and asian participants . in addition we hope that many from europe , north america and other parts will be able to join us here in what should be a very special occasion , with a list of plenary speakers that includes michael halliday , ruqaiya hasan , hu zhuanglin , jim martin , fran christie and michael o ' toole . the congress theme is linguistics and education on entering the 21st century . we welcome contributions from any of the growing number of theoretical and practical fields of sfl including extensions to other semiotic systems , and applications of sfl to education . while we expect the majority of papers and workshops to be located within a sfl framework , we welcome other contributions including those that offer an alternative perspective . call for offers of papers and workshops if you would like to offer a paper or a workshop , please send your proposal of one page ( a4 or us legal or email equivalent ) email , fax or hardcopy to the address below by 31st december 1998 . if you need a letter of acceptance for funding purposes , please inform us by marking your proposal " urgent " . papers should be designed to fit into a 40 minute slot which includes the time for questions and discussion . the workshops are three hours long . the workshops offer the opportunity for discussion , learning and improving skills such as developing theoretical knowledge and text analysis and demonstration of software and so forth . partial funding partial funding to attend the institute and congress will be considered in exceptional circumstances how to receive the second circular the second circular will contain details of the programme for the institute and congress , a list of the costs and the registration forms . it is essential that you write , fax or email us in order to receive a copy . the message need only be : " request for second circular " . also if you would like copies of the isfc99 poster , please let us know and we will forward the required number to you . address for correspondence and secretariat email : ellsfc99 @ nus . edu . sg post : isfc99 department of english language and literature national university of singapore 10 kent ridge crescent singapore 119260 fax : ( 65 ) 773 2981 website : further information will be posted on the website : http : / / www . fas . nus . edu . sg / ell / systemic / isfc-99 . html location of the institute and congress both the institute and congress will be held at the regional language centre ( relc ) , international hotel in the centre of singapore . this centre offers first rate conference facilities including accommodation , breakfasts and lunches ( and coffee breaks ) . more information about the facilities and what to do in singapore will be provided in the second circular . institute and congress organisers joseph foley , kay o'halloran , lionel wee , lisa lim , benny lee and vincent ooi and joyce james ( relc ) . any enquiries related to academic matters may be directed to : joe foley ellfoley @ nus . edu . sg kay o'halloran ellkoh @ leonis . nus . edu . sg
