Subject: language and culture

call for papers s a l s a the symposium about language and society - austin is pleased to announce its seventh annual meeting to be held april 9-11 , 1999 at the university of texas at austin . we encourage the submission of abstracts on research that addresses the relationship of language to culture and society . desired frameworks include but are not limited to : linguistic anthropology sociolinguistics ethnography of communication speech play , verbal art , and poetics political economy of language 1999 keynote speakers jill brody louisiana state university charles goodwin university of california , los angeles marjorie harness goodwin university of california , los angeles elizabeth keating university of texas at austin selected papers delivered at the conference will be published as a special edition of the texas linguistic forum . speakers will be allowed 20 minutes for presentation and 10 minutes for discussion . papers will be selected based on the evaluation of an anonymous written abstract which may not exceed one page ( using 10 pt . font or larger ) . please submit : 1 ) six ( 6 ) copies of the abstract , on 81 / 2 x 11 paper , to the address below . 2 ) a 3x5 card with the following information : a ) the title of the paper b ) author 's name c ) author 's affiliation d ) address , phone number , and email address at which the author wishes to be notified . 3 ) a short 100 word abstract , on a 3 . 5 " disk ( mac or pc ) , for publication in the conference program . texts must be word-processed in text-only ascii or microsoft word ( mac or pc ) . please label your disk clearly . see the salsa web page for more details : http : \ \ www . dla . utexas . edu \ depts \ anthro \ projects \ salsa deadline for receipt of abstracts is january 15 , 1999 . late submissions will not be accepted , and we cannot accept papers which are to be published elsewhere . notification of acceptance or rejection will be sent in mid - february , 1999 . registration fees will be approximately $ 20 for students and $ 35 for non-students . papers must be received by early june , 1999 to be included in the published proceedings . send all correspondence to : salsa department of linguistics university of texas at austin austin , tx 78712 email : salsa @ ccwf . cc . utexas . edu anastasia coles amanda doran nisha merchant goss salsa vii co - chairs salsa @ ccwf . cc . utexas . edu
