Subject: current topics in constraint - based theories of germanic syntax ( 2 . cfp )

abstracts due : 15 . february esslli-98 workshop on current topics in constraint-based theories of germanic syntax august 17 - 21 , 1998 a workshop held as part of the 10th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli-98 ) august 17 - 28 , 1998 , saarbrueken , germany * * second call for papers * * organizers : tibor kiss and detmar meurers ( ibm germany and univ . tuebingen ) web site : http : / / www . dcs . warwick . ac . uk / ~ esslli98 / workshops . html background : a number of approaches to germanic languages ( excluding english ) have been developed in constraint-based theories like hpsg and lfg . apart from the issue of empirical adequacy , formal issues were raised , among them : - the nature of complex predicates and the mechanisms used to formalize them - linearization versus movement analyses of various phenomena - the nature of functional projections - configurational and non-configurational properties of scope determination the idea of this workshop is to provide a forum to present and discuss current approaches exploring such empirical and formal issues of the syntax of germanic languages ( excluding english ) . focusing on germanic rather than on a particular syntactic theory is intended to allow for more inter-framework discussion . workshop format : the workshop will consist of five sessions , with two 30 + 10 - minute presentations in each session . submission : all researchers in the area , but especially ph . d . students and young researchers , are encouraged to submit an extended abstract of 2000-3000 words either as hardcopy or electronically ( postscript only ) . the accepted papers will be made available in a summer school reader . if sufficiently many high-quality papers are submitted , we intend to publish them in an edited volume . submissions should be sent before 15 . february 1998 to one of the following two organizers : tibor kiss detmar meurers ibm germany universitaet tuebingen vangerowstr . 18 seminar fuer sprachwissenschaft d-69115 heidelberg kleine wilhelmstr . 113 germany d-72074 tuebingen germany tibor @ heidelbg . ibm . com dm @ sfs . nphil . uni-tuebingen . de registration : workshop contributors will be required to register for esslli-98 , but they will be eligible for a reduced registration fee . important dates : feb 15 , 98 : deadline for submissions apr 15 , 98 : notification of acceptance may 15 , 98 : deadline for final copy aug 17 , 98 : start of workshop further information : to obtain further information about esslli-98 please visit the esslli-98 home page at http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / esslli
