Subject: cfp : foundation for endangered langages

the foundation for endangered languages is now accepting proposals for projects of work that will support , enable or assist the documentation , protection or promotion of one or more endangered languages . please pass on this announcement to your friends and colleagues in endangered language communities who may not have access to the internet or e-mail . form for submissions there is a form which defines the content of appropriate proposals , and this may be obtained from the foundation 's liaison officer , christopher moseley , < chris _ moseley @ mon . bbc . co . uk > 2 wanbourne lane , nettlebed . oxfordshire rg9 5ah england fax + 44-1491 - 641922 all proposals must be submitted in this form , to ensure comparability ( although see note 4 below ) . deadline the time-limit for proposals to be considered in the current round will be the 8th of november 1998 . by that date , proposals and supporting testimonials must reach christopher moseley , at the address specified in the form . the fel committee will announce its decision before the 31st of december 1998 . four points to note especially : 1 . the foundation 's funds are extremely limited and it is not anticipated that any award will be greater than us $ 1 , 000 . smaller proposals stand a better chance of funding . 2 . where possible , work undertaken within endangered language communities themselves will be preferred . 3 . the foundation for endangered languages ( fel ) is a separate from the endangered language fund ( elf ) < elf @ haskins . yale . edu > , which is also announcing its request for proposals about now , but on a somewhat different timescale . it is perfectly possible ( and has indeed occurred in the past ) that the same project can be partially funded by both fel and elf . 4 . those who have already submitted proposals to fel speculatively should contact chris moseley to confirm what information , if any , still needs to be submitted . the form should be used to submit this additional information . nicholas ostler president foundation for endangered languages uk registered charity 1070616 http : / / www . bris . ac . uk / depts / philosophy / ctll / fel / batheaston villa , 172 bailbrook lane bath ba1 7aa england + 44-1225 - 85-2865 fax + 44-1225 - 85-9258 nostler @ chibcha . demon . co . uk
