Subject: lexical semantics workshop - - esslli ' 99

esslli-99 workshop on lexical semantics and linking in constraint-based theories august 16-20 , 1999 a workshop held as part of the 11th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli-99 ) august 9 - 20 , 1999 , utrecht , the netherlands * * first call for papers * * organiser : valia kordoni ( university of tuebingen ) background : in recent years , there has been an increasing interest among syntacticians in the interface between syntax and word meaning . in constraint-based theories like lfg and hpsg , this interest has led to the development of the lexical mapping theory ( lmt ) and the hierarchical lexicon models , respectively . having as a common starting point their recognition for the importance of word classes for the interface between syntax and lexical semantics , lmt and the hierarchical lexicon models vary both ontologically , and in the range of linguistic phenomena they attempt to explain , some of which include , but in no way are they limited to , the following : - split intransitivity phenomena ( unaccusative vs . unergative verbs ) - variation among verbs of emotion and location - subcategorization alternations and the linking of indirect arguments - morpholexical processes , including causative verbs - complex predicates - symmetric predicates the aim of the workshop is to provide a forum for researchers and advanced ph . d . students to present and discuss approaches on empirical and formal issues related to the syntax - lexical semantics interface in the frameworks of lfg and hpsg . the workshop intends to continue the series of courses and workshops on lexical semantics and on the interactions between morphology , syntax and semantics held at previous summer schools . it is also dedicated to support inter-framework discussions , since it is focussing on the lexical semantics and linking components of both lfg and hpsg . workshop format : the workshop will consist of five sessions with two 30 + 10 - minute presentations in each session . submissions : all researchers in the area , but especially ph . d . students and young researchers , are encouraged to submit a two-page abstract either as hardcopy or electronically ( postscript only ) . submissions should be sent until february 15 , 1999 . notification of acceptance will be given to contributors around april 15 , 1999 . contributors of accepted papers will be asked to provide an extended abstract ( 10 pages ) in latex format to be included in a summer school reader . the deadline for the submission of the extended abstracts is may 31 , 1999 . submissions should be sent to the following address : valia kordoni universitaet tuebingen seminar fuer sprachwissenschaft kleine wilhelmstr . 113 d-72074 tuebingen germany korder @ sfs . nphil . uni-tuebingen . de registration : workshop contributors will be required to register for esslli-99 , but they will be eligible for a reduced registration fee . important dates : feb 15 , 99 : deadline for submissions apr 15 , 99 : notification of acceptance may 31 , 99 : deadline for final copy aug 16 , 99 : start of workshop further information : the workshop will take place in association with the 11th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli ) to be held in utrecht , the netherlands ( 9-20 august 1999 ) . the main focus of the european summer schools in logic , language and information is the interface between linguistics , logic , and computation . the esslli summer school is organized under the auspices of the european association for logic , language and information ( folli ) . foundational , introductory and advanced courses together with workshops cover a wide variety of topics within six areas of interest : logic , computation , language , logic and computation , computation and language , language and logic . previous summer schools have been highly successful , attracting around 500 students from europe and elsewhere . the school has developed into an important meeting place and forum for discussion for students and researchers interested in the interdisciplinary study of logic , language and information . to obtain further information about esslli-99 please visit the esslli-99 home page at http : / / esslli . let . uu . nl /
