Subject: logic linguistics and information

first announcement and call for papers esslli-99 workshop on focus and presupposition in multi-speaker discourse university of utrecht , 9-13 august 1999 context : the workshop is part of the 11th european summer school " logic linguistics and information " ( esslli ) , to be held in utrecht from 9-20 august 1999 . the esslli summer school is organized under the auspices of the european association for logic , language and information ( folli ) . previous esslli summer schools have been highly successful , attracting around 500 students from europe and elsewhere . the school has developed into an important meeting place and forum for discussion for students and researchers interested in the interdisciplinary study of logic , language and information . for more information on esslli ' 99 see : http : / / esslli . let . uu . nl / . workshop description : the aim of the workshop is to explore the interrelation between theories of focus , theories of presupposition and their implementation in a formal theory of dialogue . topics to be discussed include : - the relation between focus and presupposition . - the role of answer focus in formal models of questions-answer exchanges . - the treatment of presupposition in multi-speaker discourse . - the relation between deaccentuation , contextual givenness , and presupposition . - the role of focus and deaccenting in establishing discourse coherence . practical matters : paper presentations will be 45 minutes long ( including 15 minutes for discussion ) . abstracts should not exceed 1500 words , and can be submitted either by email or by regular mail . email submissions should be in postscript or plain ascii . please include " esslli workshop " in the subject line of your message , and send it to : bart . geurts @ mpi . nl abstract submissions by regular mail should consist of 3 copies , and be addressed to : bart geurts max planck institute for psycholinguistics postbox 310 nl-6500 ah nijmegen the netherlands workshop speakers are required to register for the summer school . however , workshop speakers will be able to register at a reduced rate to be determined by the organizing committee . dates : - deadline for submissions of abstracts : 1 march 1999 - notification of acceptance : 1 may 1999 - workshop to be held : august 9-13 for any questions , please contact the organizers : bart geurts university of osnabrueck & max planck institute for psycholinguistics , nijmegen bart . geurts @ mpi . nl manfred krifka university of texas at austin krifka @ mail . utexas . edu rob van der sandt university of nijmegen rvdsandt @ phil . kun . nl
