Subject: lexicon

linguistics association of canada and the united states the twenty-sixth lacus forum to be held at the university of alberta edmonton , alberta , canada august 2nd - 7th , 1999 featured lecturers : joan bybee , univesity of new mexico wallace chafe , uc santa barbara conference theme : the lexicon abstracts are invited on any topics relating to the lexicon , including those listed below , but abstracts on other linguistic topics will also be considered : lexical semantics the mental lexicon relationships of lexicon and syntax relationships between lexical and conceptual information relationships between lexical and morphological information relationships between lexical and phonological information the cortical representation of lexical information diachronic lexicology : the lexicon through time conceptual categories and lexical categories cognitive treatments of lexical information lexical functions lexicalization idiomaticity abstracts should be anonymous ( no indication of the author ) and should : l - have an informative but brief title 2 - clearly state the problem to be addressed or the research questions raised by prior studies . 3 - state the main point ( s ) or argument ( s ) of the proposed presentation , with relevant data if possible . if the paper is empirically based , state specific hypotheses and at least an outline of results obtained . 4 - show relevance to other work or to linguistic research . 5 - give references to literature cited in the abstract . submit abstracts via e-mail with 3 camera-ready copies simultaneously sent via snail mail to the addresses below . those without e-mail available should send 16 hard copies via snail mail . each author should also send by snail mail a 3x5 " card bearing name , addresses ( especially e-mail ) affiliation , phone , title of paper , audio-visual equipment required ( an overhead projector will regularly be available ) , eligibility for prizes , time desired ( normally 15 or 25 minutes plus discussion time ) , and identification of one or more topics under which the paper falls ( from above list , or specify if another ) . proposals for panels jor special sessions - - identifying proposed participants - - are also welcome . please contact ruth brend or syd lamb right away with your ideas ( see addresses below ) . the annual presidents ' predoctoral prize ( $ 100 ) and postdoctoral prize ( $ 500 - - for young untenured scholars ) will be awarded to the best papers in each category ( only single-authored presentations considered ) . limited funds to assist scholars coming from countries with weak currencies may be available . for information contact the conference committee chair . submit abstracts & proposals to : ruth brend , chair , lacus conference committee , 3363 burbank dr . , ann arbor , mi 48105 , usa ( tel . 313-6652787 ; fax 313-6659743 ; e-mail , rbrend @ umich . edu ) . deadline for receipt of abstracts : january 15 , 1999 . the university of alberta , the second largest english speaking university in canada , is located in edmonton , a cosmopolitan and ethnically diverse city of almost a million people located just a few hours drive from the magnificent canadian rockies ( about 4 hours to jasper and about 5 hours to banff - - the drive is easy and breathtakingly beautiful ) . quite reasonable hotel accommodations will be available at the edge of campus , within easy walking distance to the conference rooms . accommodations will also be available on campus . restaurants can be found both on and at the periphery of campus , while downtown edmonton is accessible via the subway . further information will be sent to all lacus members and to nonmember authors of accepted abstracts in march . conference committee : ruth brend , michigan state university ( emerita ) , chair angela della volpe , california state university , fullerton sydney lamb , rice university gary prideaux , university of alberta lois stanford , university of alberta address questions about the conference to : ruth brend < rbrend @ umich . edu > syd lamb < lamb @ rice . edu > address questions about alberta to : gary prideaux < gary . prideaux @ ualberta . ca > , lois stanford < lstanfor @ maildrop . srv . ualberta . ca >
