Subject: eacl ' 99 student cfp

we are pleased to announce the first call for student papers for eacl ' 99 ( bergen , norway 8 - - 12 june 1999 ) . the call ( text version below ) can be found at http : / / www . ims . uni-stuttgart . de / eacl99 - student / the conference home page is at http : / / www . hit . uib . no / eacl99 / the student session programme committee jonas kuhn , student chair atro voutilainen , faculty co-chair - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - * * * eacl ' 99 call for student papers * * * student sessions at the 9th conference of the european chapter of the association for computational linguistics eacl ' 99 june 8 - 12 , 1999 university of bergen bergen , norway http : / / www . ims . uni-stuttgart . de / eacl99 - student / - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - purpose : the goal of these sessions is to provide a forum for student members to present work in progress and receive feedback from other members of the computational linguistics community . the sessions will consist of paper presentations by student authors . the accepted papers will be published in a special section of the conference proceedings . note that the existence of the student sessions does not influence the treatment of student-authored papers submitted to the main conference . rather , the aim of the student sessions is to provide a separate track emphasizing students ' work in progress rather than completed work . requirements : papers should describe original , unpublished work in progress that demonstrates insight , creativity , and promise . topics of interest are the same as for the main conference . papers submitted to the main conference cannot be considered for the student sessions . students may , of course , submit different papers to the main conference and the student session , or papers on different aspects of a particular problem or project . note that for papers presenting joint work , all co-authors have to be students . format for submission : the maximum allowable length is 3 pages ( about 1800 words ) , including references . papers should be headed by a title page containing the paper id code ( see below ) , title , a short ( 5 line ) summary , up to three general keywords specifying the subject area ( e . g . , " french syntax , machine translation " ) , the word count ( excluding figures and bibliography ) and a notice of multiple submission , if required . since reviewing will be ` blind ' , the title page of the paper should omit author names and addresses . furthermore , self-references that reveal the authors ' identity ( e . g . , " we previously showed ( smith , 1991 ) . . . " ) should be avoided . instead , use references of the form " smith previously showed ( 1991 ) . . . " care should be taken to avoid obvious giveaways in the bibliography such as listings for unpublished in-house technical reports . papers outside the specified length and / or without an id code are liable to rejection without review . to identify each paper , an id code must be acquired by filing an electronic paper registration form : http : / / www . ltg . ed . ac . uk / eacl99 / register . html on successful completion of this form an id code will be sent to the designated author by e-mail . media of submission : authors may submit their papers electronically or in hard copy . electronic submission is strongly preferred . electronic submissions should be either self-contained latex source , postscript or pdf ( we encourage latex submissions ) . postscript submissions must use a standard font . latex submissions should not refer to any other external files or styles except for the standard styles for tex 3 . 14 and latex 2 . 09 . the bibliography for a latex submission cannot be submitted as separate . bib file ; the actual bibliography entries must be inserted in the submitted latex source file . we strongly recommend the use of acl - standard latex : http : / / www . ltg . ed . ac . uk / eacl99 / style / eaclsub . sty ( plus bibstyle acl . bst ) or word style files ( msword _ template . rtf ) for the preparation of submissions . these styles include a place for the required information such as id code and word count , and allow for a graceful transition to the style required for publication . if you cannot use the acl - standard styles directly , a description of the required format is at http : / / www . ltg . ed . ac . uk / eacl99 / style / substyle . html . if you cannot access this web page , send email to eacl99 @ cogsci . ed . ac . uk with subject substyle for an automatic reply . electronic submissions should be sent to eacl99 - student @ ims . uni-stuttgart . de hard copy submissions should consist of four ( 4 ) paper copies of each paper ( printed on both sides of the page if possible ) should be submitted to the following address : eacl ' 99 student session c / o jonas kuhn ims , univ . stuttgart azenbergstr . 12 70174 stuttgart germany enquiries to the student session committee by email at eacl99 - student @ ims . uni-stuttgart . de . schedule : submissions must be received by 18 january 1999 . late submissions ( those arriving on or after 19 january 1999 ) will not be considered . acknowledgements will be emailed soon after receipt . notification of acceptance will be sent to authors ( by email ) by 10 march 1999 . camera - ready copies of final papers prepared in a double-column format , preferably using a laser printer , must be received at the main programme committee in edinburgh by 19 april 1999 , along with a signed copyright release statement . detailed formatting guidelines will be provided to authors with their acceptance notice . the student paper sessions will take place during the main conference on 9-11 june 1999 . venue and local organisation : the conference will be held in bergen , norway from 8 through 12 june , 1999 . see the conference home page http : / / www . hit . uib . no / eacl99 / for local arrangements information . the local arrangements committee is chaired by koenraad de smedt . the local arrangements committee can be reached at : humanities information technologies university of bergen alligaten 27 5007 bergen norway phone : + 47 5558-8008 fax : + 47 5558-9470 email : eacl99 @ uib . no student session committee : the student session committee is co-chaired by atro voutilainen ( university of helsinki ) and jonas kuhn ( university of stuttgart ) . atro voutilainen jonas kuhn department of general linguistics ims , univ . stuttgart p . o . box 4 azenbergstr . 12 fin-00014 university of helsinki 70174 stuttgart finland germany phone : + 358 9 191 23 507 ( office ) phone : + 49-711 - 121-1354 fax : + 358 9 191 23 598 fax : + 49-711 - 121-1366 email : atro . voutilainen @ helsinki . fi jonas @ ims . uni-stuttgart . de timetable : 1999 18 jan submitted student papers due in stuttgart 10 mar decisions on programme sent to authors 19 apr final versions of papers due in edinburgh 9-11 jun student sessions at conference in bergen
