Subject: southeast conference on linguistics

secol 30th anniversary meeting spring 1999 linguistics for the twenty - first century call for papers : due december 7 old dominion university will host the spring 1999 meeting of secol , which will be held at the norfolk waterside marriott in norfolk , virginia on april 8th , 9th and 10th . we will be celebrating the 30th anniversary of the founding of the organization . the featured speakers for the spring meeting are william labov of the university of pennsylvania and walt wolfram of north carolina state university . labov will make a presentation on " the triumph of southern sound changes , " showing that certain elements of southern dialect are now found to be occurring throughout north america . walt wolfram 's presentation will be on " the southern context ( s ) of earlier aave . " based on his examination of longstanding african american communities in the pamlico sound area of north carolina , he argues that earlier african american speech was much more diverse than the contemporary version of the vernacular and explains why aave has undergone such a dramatic movement toward a normative vernacular over the last half century . in addition , natalie schilling - estes will moderate a discussion by a group of younger scholars on " fieldwork for the new century , " which will deal with ethical issues , approaches to fieldwork , current and emerging technologies , and fieldwork priorities for the 21st century . abstract guidelines please send six copies of an abstract of your paper - - not to exceed 300 words - - to the secol office for the consideration of the program committee . do not put your name on the abstracts so they may be judged anonymously . please copy and fill out the following form and staple it to one copy of your abstract . after the papers are refereed , we will notify you of the committee 's decisions . the abstracts must arrive at the secol office no later than 7 december 1998 . guidelines i . give the title of the paper at the top of the page . do not give your name or other identifying information . abstracts will be judged by the program committee without the knowledge of the identity of the authors . ii . the abstracts should not be longer than 300 words . they must be typewritten , double-spaced , and the copies may be xeroxed . iii . a statement of the topic or purpose of the paper should be included , preferably as the first paragraph . a . if your paper involves the analysis of linguistic materials , give appropriate examples , along with a brief indication of why they are important to your argument . b . if your paper is to present the results of experiments and you do not yet have those results , indicate the nature of the experiments and why the results will be significant . c . state the relevance of your ideas to past work or to the future development of the field . d . state your conclusion ( however tentative ) ; avoid saying things like " a solution to this problem will be presented . " if you are taking a stand on a controversial issue , do not simply say which side you take ; summarize the arguments that lead you to take this position . name : affiliation : mailing address : title of paper : indicate special equipment needs : all papers for this meeting should be designed for 20 minutes delivery time . abstracts must arrive at the secol office no later than 7 december 1998 . send six copies of your abstract to : marvin ching or joan weatherly southeastern conference on linguistics department of english the university of memphis memphis , tn 38152
