Subject: language , interaction , and culture

* * * * * * * * * * call for papers * * * * * * * * * * the center for language , interaction , and culture ( clic ) graduate student association at ucla and the language , interaction , and social organization ( liso ) graduate student association at ucsb issue its call for papers for the fifth annual conference on language , interaction , and culture to be held april 29 - may 1 , 1999 . this year 's conference will be hosted by the liso graduate student association at the university of california , santa barbara . plenary speaker : dr . don kulick dr . kulick will also lead a pre-conference workshop for graduate students . registration information will be forthcoming . submissions should address topics at the intersection of language , interaction , and culture and would preferably be based on recorded , spontaneous interaction . they must be hard copy and should include : ( 1 ) a detachable title page that includes ( a ) the title of the paper , ( b ) the author 's name , affiliation , postal address , e-mail address , and phone number , ( c ) a list of equipment needed for the presentation ; and ( 2 ) six copies of a 500 - 1 , 000 word extended abstract of the paper . no information identifying the author may appear in the abstract . three copies of submitted abstracts must be received no later than friday , february 5 , 1999 . liso is an ongoing seminar group at the university of california , santa barbara , whose members share an interest in the analysis of recorded social interaction through various approaches , including conversation analysis , interactional sociolinguistics , and functional linguistics . liso is composed of faculty and graduate students from linguistics , sociology , and education , among other departments . clic is located at the university of california , los angeles . the purpose of clic is to promote cross-disciplinary discussion about issues regarding language as a complex resource for thinking and acting in the world . clic is composed of faculty and graduate students from anthropology , applied linguistics , education , psychology , and sociology . submissions not received in triplicate or not received by the deadline will not be considered . further questions can be addressed via e-mail to clic @ ucla . edu or harbison @ cats . ucsc . edu . all submissions should be mailed to : liso graduate student association university of california , santa barbara department of sociology 2834 ellison hall santa barbara , ca 93106-3100
