Subject: 2nd annual computational linguistics research colloquium

call for papers 2nd annual cluk research colloquium ( cluk = computational linguistics u . k . ) january 11th - 12th 1999 university of essex the cluk colloquia aim to offer phd students in natural language processing and related disciplines an opportunity to present and discuss their work with members of the wider research community . the colloquia are organised as mini-conferences . candidates submit an abstract , which is refereed by the cluk programme committee . presentations are held in conference style sessions , to which senior established researchers are invited . the 2nd annual cluk research colloquium will be held at the university of essex , on monday 11th and tuesday 12th of january 1999 . this year , we are pleased to announce two invited speakers to the event : professor johanna moore ( university of edinburgh ) dr rens bod ( university of leeds ) details can be found on < http : / / cswww . essex . ac . uk / staff / udo / cluk . the pages will be updated on an ongoing basis . for more information about the university of essex , the campus and how to get there , see < http : / / www . essex . ac . uk / about / main . html - call for papers : dates and format authors are requested to submit a 500 word abstract of their presentation ( including name , address , email address and title ) to : anne de roeck department of computer science university of essex . wivenhoe park colchester co4 3sq email : deroe @ essex . ac . uk submissions as emailed ascii text are preferred , but hardcopy format will be accepted . submission deadline : november 23rd notification of acceptance : december 14th abstracts will be refereed by the programme committee : anne de roeck , university of essex ( chair ) adam kilgarriff , university of brighton diana maynard , manchester metropolitan university mark moens , university of edinburgh nicholas ostler , linguacubun ltd . john tait , university of sunderland carole tiberius , university of brighton yorick wilks , university of sheffield the cluk committee will actively pursue a means of publishing selected full papers in a journal or monograph series . - local arrangements and cost the meeting will start at 11 am on january 11th , and will finish after lunch on january 12th . it is organised by the organising committee ( email : cluk2 @ essex . ac . uk ) : anne de roeck udo kruschwitz nick webb rachele winn - secretarial cost of participation is l55 and includes tea / coffee , lunches and dinner with wine . accommodation will be in local hotels . we are compiling a list of low cost accommodation in wivenhoe and colchester , which will appear on our website shortly . participants are expected to book their own accommodation , though we will provide information and assist where we can . problems should be addressed to cluk2 @ essex . ac . uk . an on-line registration page will be added to our website shortly .
