Subject: languages in contact

conference on languages in contact groningen university november 25-26 , 1999 first call for papers a conference on languages in contact will be held on november 25-26 , 1999 , at the university of groningen . this conference will include sessions devoted to descriptive and theoretical aspects of language contact . the aim of this conference is to discuss language contact . issues for discussion involve pidgins and creoles , minorities and their languages , diaspora situations , ' sprachbund ' phenomena , extralinguistic correlates of variety in contact situations , problems of endangered languages and the typology of these languages . we particularly welcome reports on contact phenomena between languages in russia , their survival and the influence of russian . this includes yiddish and mennonite dialects of low - german . there will be a special session devoted to this topic : languages in contact with russian . the conference will be held on the occasion of the degree of honorary doctor in st petersburg of dr tjeerd de graaf . we welcome contributions for 30 - minute presentations ( including 10 minutes of discussion ) . invited speakers , in alphabetical order : liya bondarko ( university of st petersburg ) evgenij golovko ( russian academy of sciences ) pieter muysken ( university of leiden ) sally thomason ( university of pittsburg ) abstracts should be restricted to two pages , including examples and references . two copies of abstracts should be submitted , one anonymous , and one mentioning the author 's name , affiliation , postal address and e-mail address . the deadline for submission of abstracts : april 1 , 1999 . abstracts should be sent to : the organizing committee john nerbonne , jos schaeken , dicky gilbers department of linguistics university of groningen oude kijk in ` t jatstraat 26 9712 ek groningen the netherlands information : e-mail : nerbonne @ let . rug . nl , schaeken @ let . rug . nl , gilbers @ let . rug . nl fax : + 31-50 - 3636855
