Subject: final call : penn ling . colloquium

* * call for papers * * the penn linguistics club announces the twenty - third annual penn linguistics colloquium saturday 27 february and sunday 28 february 1999 invited speaker : angelika kratzer , university of massachusetts we welcome papers on any topic in linguistics and related fields . this year 's colloquium will feature a special session on applications of constraint based approaches in any of the subfields of linguistics , including but not limited to phonology , morphology , syntax , semantics-pragmatics , computational linguistics , sociolinguistics , historical linguistics , and language acquisition . speakers will have twenty minutes for their presentation and five minutes for discussion and questions . prospective speakers should submit three copies of their abstract no later than tuesday 1 december 1998 to : the penn linguistics colloquium committee department of linguistics 619 williams hall university of pennsylvania philadelphia pa 19104-6305 abstracts should be no longer than 2 pages in a 12 - point font with 1 - inch margins and should be accompanied by an index card including your name , affiliation ( department and institution ) , address , e-mail address and the subfield of linguistics ( or related discipline ) that you find most appropriate to your topic . in particular , please indicate whether you would like your paper to be considered for inclusion in the special session . no more than one single and one joint abstract per author may be submitted . submissions by e-mail in ascii or latex to plc23 @ babel . ling . upenn . edu are welcome . proceedings of the conference will be published as a volume of the penn working papers in linguistics . authors who present papers agree to submit a camera-ready copy of their paper by may 31 , 1999 . if you have further questions , please contact us at the above address or via e-mail at plc23 @ babel . ling . upenn . edu . the colloquium web page can be found at http : / / www . ling . upenn . edu / ~ nrh / plc23 . html sincerely , the colloquium committee
