Subject: cognitive science conference

cogsci is an interdisciplinary research group , in which linguistics plays a major role . we would like to encourage linguists to submit papers to the conference . cognitive science society conference call for papers and proposals we are pleased to announce the twenty-first annual meeting of the cognitive science society on august 19-21 , 1999 . the conference site is vancouver , british columbia , on the downtown campus of simon fraser university . our goal in organizing this conference is to reflect the full spectrum of the many research areas in cognitive science . we welcome all submissions , and trust that multiple research themes will emerge naturally . we are especially interested in submissions in areas that have been under represented at recent conferences . there are six categories for submissions : spoken papers : 20 - minute spoken presentations ; reviewed and published as six-page papers in the proceedings . submission length : up to 2000 words . symposia : two - hour spoken presentations , including three or more well-integrated talks on a common topic ; reviewed and published as one-page abstracts in the proceedings . submission length : up to 1000 words . posters : standard poster presentations ; reviewed and published as 6 - page papers in the proceedings . submission length : up to 2000 words . abstract posters : poster presentations by full members of the society only ; not reviewed or published in the proceedings . submission length : up to 500 words . society members can submit abstracts for posters through march 6 , 1999 . tutorials : sessions devoted to technical tutorials may be offered . possible topics include hidden markov models , act model , cognitive task analysis , & fmri . for more information , see http : / / www . psychology . nottingham . ac . uk / staff / ritter / cogsci99 / proposals . html workshops : sessions devoted to education in cognitive science may also be offered . proposals for " how-to " sessions on undergraduate and graduate programs of study are requested . for more information , see http : / / depts . vassar . edu / ~ cogsci / workshops . html review process : submissions for spoken papers , standard posters , and symposia will be reviewed by these criteria : technical / theoretical merit ; relevance to a broad audience of cognitive science researchers ; clarity of presentation ; significance ; and originality . * * * * * all submissions will be refereed electronically . we require camera-ready paper copies only once accepted for publication . information on electronic submission formats can be found at our conference website : http : / / www . sfu . ca / cogsci99 / conference chair : prof . martin hahn email : cogsci99 @ sfu . ca postal mail : cogsci99 , c / o philosophy dept . , simon fraser univ . , vancouver , b . c . , v5a 1s6 deadline : all submissions must be received by february 6 , 1999 , for consideration . for cognitive science society membership information , please see http : / / www . umich . edu / ~ cogsci / or , contact the society office c / o prof . colleen seifert , univ . of michigan , 525 east university , ann arbor , mi , 48109-1109 ; phone : ( 734 ) 429-9248 ; fax : ( 734 ) 763-7480 ; email : cogsci @ umich . edu
