Subject: anthropological linguistics , vol . 40 , no . 3

* * anthropological linguistics , volume 40 , number 3 ( fall 1998 ) * * contents a case of taboo - motivated lexical replacement in the indigenous languages of the caucasus , kevin tuite and wolfgang schulze the barbacoan languages of colombia and ecuador , timothy jowan curnow and anthony j . liddicoat language maintenance on the alabama - coushatta reservation , helena halmari palikur and the typology of classifiers , alexandra y . aikhenvald and diana green obituary frank t . siebert , jr . ( 1912-1998 ) , ives goddard bibliography of frank t . siebert , jr . book reviews phonologies of asia and africa ( including the caucasus ) ( alan s . kaye , editor , and peter t . daniels , technical advisor ) , michael kenstowicz nigerian pidgin ( nicholas g . faraclas ) , philip a . noss grammaticalization of the complex sentence : a case study in chadic ( zygmunt frajzyngier ) , gerrit j . dimmendaal lushootseed texts : an introduction to puget salish narrative aesthetics ( crisca bierwert , editor ) , timothy montler comparative eskimo dictionary with aleut cognates ( michael fortescue , steven jacobson , and lawrence kaplan , editors ) , jonathan david bobaljik sounds like life : sound - symbolic grammar , performance and cognition in pastaza quechua ( janis b . nuckolls ) , rosaleen howard-malverde the making of language ( mike beaken ) , derek bickerton language history , language change , and language relationship : an introduction to historical and comparative linguistics ( hans henrich hock and brian d . joseph ) , mary niepokuj the rulings of the night : an ethnography of nepalese shaman oral texts ( gregory g . maskarinec ) , john leavitt language , power , and ideology in brunei darussalam ( geoffrey c . gunn ) , peter w . martin * * * * * * * annual subscription rates ( for 4 issues ) : $ 30 for u . s . individuals ; $ 38 for non - u . s . individuals ; $ 65 for u . s . institutions ; $ 75 for non - u . s . institutions . payment should be in u . s . funds by check or postal money order made payable to anthropological linguistics . visa and mastercard are also accepted . subscriptions and inquires should be sent to : anthropological linguistics , student building 130 ( c ) , indiana university , bloomington , in 47405 usa ; fax : ( 812 ) 855-7529 ; e-mail : < anthling @ indiana . edu > . for abstracts and more information , visit our website at : < http : / / www . indiana . edu / ~ anthling >
