Subject: 7th european nlg workshop

7th european workshop on natural language generation call for papers toulouse ( france ) , may 13-15 1999 this seventh european workshop on natural language generation will focus on all aspects of computational linguistics and industrial applications related to natural language generation . papers related to theoretical aspects , applied research and ongoing projects are encouraged . natural language generation being the study of a number of models , approaches and systems , the workshop will include , besides classical topics , scientific domains in which natural language generation plays an important role , such as speech , dialogue , multi-media interfaces , psycho-linguistics , and theoretical linguistics . relevant application domains include all types of applications ( mt , ir and ie , etc . ) in which generation plays an important role and where specific techniques or models of generation have been developed . the main topics are the following , without excluding others : - lexical aspects : phonology , morphology , syntax and semantics , - syntactic aspects , - semantic and pragmatic aspects , - speech synthesis and nlg , oral dialogue , - construction of knowledge bases for nlg , - applications of nlg : mt , summarization , report generation , etc . , - multi-media generation including graphics , numerical information , and texts in various formats , etc . , - psycholinguistic aspects of nlg : in speech production , in discourse production and management , in lexicalization , etc . - architectures for nlg , - internet and web applications using nlg . multiple submissions must be mentioned , and if the paper is accepted at several places , presentation at the workshop will be conditional to the paper been withdrawn from these other places . papers should be prepared in latex ( preferably ) or in word ( send rtf file ) , not exceeding 4000 words ( about 8 to 10 pages long ) , including references . more details about format submissions will be given soon on the workshop web site . papers must relate original , unpublished work . work in progress can also be submitted . papers must include the authors ' name , full address and e-mail . they will be reviewed anonymously . therefore , a title page must come separately , with the title of the paper , the abstract , the authors ' names and addresses , and , if appropriate , the mention of multiple submissions ( and where the paper has been submitted ) . no indication of the authors ' identity must appear in the text of the paper . deadlines : january 25th submission of papers by e-mail march 10th notification of acceptance / rejection april 15th final paper due ( paper copy ) may 13-15 workshop papers and all correspondence should be sent to stdizier @ irit . fr programme committee : christy doran wolfgang hoeppner helmut horacek eduard hovy guy lapalme kathy mccoy david mcdonald kathy mckeown chris mellish cecile paris patrick saint - dizier manfred stede michael zock local organization information : web site ( forthcoming ) : http : / / www . irit . fr / manifs / manifs . html look for : ewnlg ' 99 . the meeting will be held in toulouse downtown , in the holiday inn hotel , on the famous ` place du capitole ' , in the heart of the old town . toulouse has an international airport , with many national and european destinations . there are many places worth visiting in the city , all within about 10 minutes walking distance ( museums , old roman - style churches , 16th - 17th century private houses with inner yards , etc . ) . fees should be around 750 french francs ( about 130 us $ ) , for 2 days , including two lunches , the breaks and the proceedings . for three days , fees will be about 1000f . blocks of rooms will be reserved in the hotel meeting ( 530f per room per day , incl . buffet breakfast ) and in other , cheaper , hotels around at preferential rates .
