Subject: head - driven phrase structure grammar

first call for papers hpsg-99 6th international conference on head - driven phrase structure grammar university of edinburgh august 4 - 6 , 1999 the 6th international conference on hpsg will be held at the university of edinburgh , scotland , on august 4th to 6th 1999 , hosted by the human communication research centre and the department of linguistics . abstracts are solicited for 20 - minute presentations ( followed by 10 minutes of discussion ) which address linguistic , foundational , or computational issues relating to the framework of head - driven phrase structure grammar . special session and invited speakers the conference will feature a special session on grammatical interfaces , exploring the interaction of parts of the sign that encode different types of grammatical information , e . g . syntax / morphology , semantics / syntax , phonology / syntax , etc . this session will have a number of invited speakers , as well as submitted papers . the second call for papers will provide further details about the invited speakers . submissions for the session should be made in the same way as for the main session , but marked ' grammatical interfaces ' . submission details we invite e-mail submissions of abstracts for 30 - minute papers ( including questions and comments ) . a submission should consist of two parts : - an information sheet ( in ascii ) , containing the name of the author ( s ) , affiliation ( s ) , e-mail and postal address ( es ) and a title ; - an abstract , consisting of a description of not more than 5 pages ( including figures and references ) . abstracts may be either in plain ascii or in ( unix-compatible encoded ) postscript , pdf , or dvi . abstracts can be sent to hpsg99 @ cogsci . ed . ac . uk abstract submission deadline february 15th 1999 notification of acceptance april 18th 1999 publication pending final approval by the publisher , a selected number of papers will be published as a volume of the csli - series " studies in constraint - based lexicalism " , with series editors andreas kathol , jean - pierre koenig and sam mchombo . there will be a separate round of submission and reviewing for this volume after the conference . it is also hoped that a volume of papers on the topic of the special session will be published by oxford university press . programme committee philip miller ( lille , chair ) ronnie cann ( edinburgh , chair ) claire grover ( edinburgh , local arrangements ) bob borsley stephen mueller jong bok , kim adam przepiorkowski dimitra kolliakou enric vallduvi marie labelle frank van eynde bob levine shuly wintner paola monachesi further information web site for hpsg-99 : http : / / www . cogsci . ed . ac . uk / ~ hpsg99 / for further enquiries mail : hpsg99 @ cogsci . ed . ac . uk
