Subject: book : english verbs

author : eugene m . russakovskii , associate professor , kharkov state automobile & highway technical university ( xadi ) , kharkov , ukraine . title : " encyclopedia of english verb forms : rules & exceptions " publishing houses : " karavella " ( kharkov , ukraine ) ; " prestige " ( moscow , russia ) year of publication : 1998 isbn 's : 966-586 - 036 - 4 , 588-569 - 009 - x language : russian ( verb tables are given in english ) price : $ 30 + shipping and handling " encyclopedia . . . " deals with all english verbs having non-standard grammatical paradigm . the book might be considered as a [ very ] far going generalization of the pages 96-120 of the well-known monograph by r . quirk , g . n . leech , s . greenbaum , and j . svartvik " a comprehensive grammar of the english language " . as the main subject of " encyclopedia . . . " is studying all english verbs with non-standard grammatical paradigm , irregular verbs are also included . one will find here 1209 irregular verbs , including 297 monomorphemic ones and 20 verbs-abbreviations . all irregular verbs are classified into 86 schemata . numerous comments related to verb forms usage are given , all schemata are described in detail . naturally , irregular verbs , can't exhaust the subject under consi - deration ! as it turned out , many questions related to non-standard verb in - flexions have been exposed by grammarians in an insufficiently severe form , and with numerous gaps ; a number of situations has not been described or those descriptions contained different errors and inaccuracies ; the set of rules regulating pronunciation and spelling of verb inflexions was non-complete ; the sets of exceptions to the formulated rules did not exist at all or contained only a small part of the corresponding verbs-exceptions . in " encyclopedia . . . " , we formulate an exhaustive set of rules regulating pronunciation and spelling of verb inflexions , both for bre and ame , taking into account all possible , sometimes rather curious , situations . every rule is supplied with the corresponding set of exceptions ( if there are any ) ; they are named " ccc " 's ( " closely complete corpora " ) in our book . numerous errors and inaccuracies ever met in related literature have been corrected in " encyclopedia . . . " . * * * * * for information on ordering please contact the author at : arus @ ilt . kharkov . ua
