Subject: resource logics and minimalist grammars

esslli ` 99 workshop on resource logics and minimalist grammars ( deadline for submissions : march 15th 1999 ) utrecht , 16-20 august 1999 organizers : christian retor ( irisa , rennes ) edward stabler ( ucla , los angeles ) url : http : / / www . irisa . fr / rlmg e - mail : rlmg @ irisa . fr a workshop held as part of the 11th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli ` 99 ) , august 9-20 1999 , utrecht first call for papers esslli ` 99 : the main focus of the european summer schools in logic , language and information is the interface between linguistics , logic and computation . it is organized under the auspices of the european association for logic , language and information ( folli ) . foundational , introductory and advanced courses together with workshops cover a wide variety of topics within six areas of interest : logic , computation , language , logic and computation , computation and language , language and logic . previous summer schools have been highly successful , attracting around 500 students from europe and elsewhere . the school has developed into an important meeting place and forum for discussion for students and researchers interested in the interdisciplinary study of logic , language and information . esslli-99 will take place at the university of utrecht , the netherlands , august 9-20 . in its second week it will feature a worskshop on resource logics and minimalist grammars . its aim is to provide a forum for advanced ph . d . students and other researchers to present and discuss their work on the connection between minimalist grammars and resource logics . workshop background : there has been a growing interest in connections between resource-logical theories of grammar and the minimalist grammars of the transformational tradition in syntax . a good understanding of these connections will reveal substantial differences that can be debated , and the prospects also look good for identifying a valuable common ground . in particular , the rich descriptive tradition of transformational theory may become more accessible to resource-logical frameworks , and the relatively well-understood mathematical foundations of resource-logical frameworks may stimulate a more sophisticated understanding of the mechanisms of minimalist grammars . linear logic is a neat and well studied logic from a proof theoretical perspective which is able to handle both logic for syntax ( like the lambek calculus ) and logic for semantics ( like intuitionistic logic ) , and it also appears to be a sensible framework for a logical treatment of minimalist grammars . this workshop aims to bring together phd students and other researchers in the respective traditions to explore these developments . topics of interest include but are not limited to : * applications of linear logic , multimodal categorial logic , and other resource logics to linguistic problems * formal and computational studies of minimalist and other generative grammars * studies of linguistic semantics from the perspective of either tradition * assessments of the common ground and differences among these approaches to language workshop aims : this workshop aims to : * provide a setting for researchers from various traditions to present and discuss recent work on resource logics and minimalist grammars * facilitate the exchange of ideas between researchers working in these respective areas * foster a spirit of collaborative research call for papers : researchers in the area , including phd students and young researchers , are invited to submit short papers ( between 8 and 12 pages long ) describing their thesis / research topic , approach and results . talks will be 20 minutes long , with 10 minutes for discussion / questions . authors are also encouraged to submit a list of topics they would like to see discussed at the workshop . this will help to identify issues for discussion and debate . deadline for submissions : march 15 , 1999 submissions should be sent to : rlmg @ irisa . fr submissions will be accepted in the form of either postscript or self-contained latex . authors of accepted papers will be notified by may 1st 1998 . the deadline for receipt of revised papers to appear in the workshop proceedings is june 1st 1998 . workshop format : the workshop will consist of five sessions of 90 minutes each held over five days . there will be either two or three presentations at each session with time for questions and discussion . it is hoped to have at least one invited paper from a senior researcher working in the field . publication : after the workshop , authors will have the opportunity to submit papers for possible publication in the new electronic journal " language and computation " ( http : / / www . dcs . kcl . ac . uk / journals / jlac / ) , which is supported by oxford university press . there will be more details in the next announcement . registration : workshop contributors will be required to register for esslli-99 . important dates : march 15th , 99 : deadline for submissions may 1st , 99 : notification of acceptance june 1st , 99 : deadline for final copy august 16th , 99 : start of workshop further information : to obtain further information about esslli-99 please visit the esslli-99 home page at http : / / esslli . let . uu . nl or send an email to esslli99 @ let . uu . nl . for further information on the workshop visit the site of the workshop http : / / www . irisa . fr / rlmg or send an email to rlmg @ irisa . fr
