Subject: defend yourself against criminal

would you be able to defend yourself if attack on the street ? ? ? hello - most people could n't answer that question with any confidence . with today crime rate and drug abuse problem , it 's a question that everyone need to ask themselve . crime statistics from the bureau of justice state that : - 25 % of violent crime occur at or near the victim 's home - 14 % at school and 12 % at commercial establishment ( store ) - a woman be rap every 2 minute in america - 1 out of every 4 rape take place in a public area or a park garage . - 23 % report be involve with a leisure activity at the time they be victimize . - 21 % report they be at work or travel to or from work when the crime occur . as you can see , a violent crime can happen to anyone at any time regardless of where you live or work . these crime consist of assault , robbery , carjack , rape and murder . base on these statistics , it 's almost guarantee that you will be the victim of a violent crime at some point in your life . will you react ? ? ? ? i ' ve be study the martial art for fifteen year and have be an instructor for thirteen of them . i ' ve be fortunate enough to have study under some of the best instructor in the country . i currently have a black belt in kenpo karate and have study tae kwan do , kung fu and i be currently study hapkido and isfa shootfight . my video , " a chance to escape " , will show you how to defend yourself against the seven most common type of attack on the street . i will show you self defense technique that anyone from age eight to eighty can learn and use to defend themselve . these technique be quick and easy to learn and can be the difference between life or death if you be attack on the street . my video use easy to understand term for younger child . this video be a must for any college student ( male or female ) . the technique in this video be not only good for self defense but for build confidence when out in public . senior citizen and middle age adult will gain the most benefit from this video . it will also give you helpful hint on how to carry package and purse so they win get take , how to avoid look like a victim , and how to use common object as weapon to fend off even the most aggressive attacker . with so many self defense video on the market , it be about time that there be one make for people who want one simple and effective so they can actually use the technique within minute of learn them . the best part be that you win have to study karate for fifteen year in order to do these technique . just a few short minute and you will understand how effective you can be . when it come right down to it , you be your own best judge as to whether you feel safe or not . my video will help you to feel that you have an edge on anyone who may try to attack you . it 's impossible to know when or where a violent crime will happen and the last thing you want to be be the victim . this video give you the chance you need to react and avoid become a victim . all you really need be " a chance to escape . " to order my video " a chance to escape " send check or money order in u . s . fund only for $ 19 . 95 + ( $ 4 . 95 s / h ) to : escape enterprise llc p . o . box 1657 meriden , ct . 3369 sorry , no cod 's . please allow 2 - 3 week for delivery . do n't be a victim - fight back k
