Subject: ^ * ^ * ^ i lost 23 pound in 4 week , so could you ! ! !

eat ! eat ! eat ! and still lose weight ! no joke ! need to lose weight quick ? do n't have time to exercise ? here ' s your answer ! and you can eat as much as you want ! introduce slender now ( tm ) guaranteed weight loss for life ! how confident are we ? . . . in 30 day if you ' re not completely satisfy with this system , send the " empty " bottle back for full refund ! this system is so effective , test subject typically lose 10 - 15 pound of fat in the first month ! more importantly , the rebound effect so common with other form of weight loss has been eliminate . * a no-fail slender now ( tm ) burn , bind , block and build system burn - stimulean ( tm ) - a unique herbal thermogenic formulum that allow store fat to be turn into energy ( see below ) . bind - slenderlean ( tm ) - a unique state-of - the-art fiber-base product that bind up to 40 gram ( 360 fat calorie ) of dietary fat from the food you ' ve just eat , therefore throw these excess fat calorie out of your body as waste rather than store them as fat ( see below ) . block - phase ' olean ( tm ) - it 's back ! dr . marshall 's exclusive starch blocker ( tm ) formula have be approve for re-release for the first time in 15 year ! each tablet have the capacity to block the digestion and absorption of more than 100 gram or more than 400 calorie of starch ( see below ) . build - aminolyze ( tm ) - this product contain the specific amino acid necessary for your body to make new collagen . it help maintain lean body mass and build muscle tissue ; very important while lose weight . you burn fat , rather than muscle , which help to maintain a healthy lean body mass ratio * eat as much as you want ! * your energy level will skyrocket ! * 100 % safe and all natural ! * get result in two week ! * 30 day money back guarantee - no question ask ! * eat as much as you want ! that 's right , you can continue to eat your favorite high calorie food and still lose weight ! that be mpossible until now ! with the revolutionary slender now ( tm ) system , you can enjoy your favorite food like steak , pork , egg and dairy product and still achieve your goal . * 100 % safe and all natural ! the slender now ( tm ) system contain no preservative , sugar , starch , salt , wheat , yeast , milk , soy derivative , artificial flavor or color agent . * get results in two weeks ! 90 % of our client be experience incredible result and immediate energy within the first two week ! * money back guarantee ! you have 30 day to try the product . if you be less than completely satisfy , send the " empty " bottle back for a full 100 % refund . you have 30 days to try the product at wholesale price here be what just two people have to say ( and there be many more ) : sharon h . , female , age 44 , real - estate agent , atlanta , ga . " i ' ve lose 23 pound in four week and 2 dress size and my husband have lose 15 . we be skeptical because we think it be another one of those fad diet . however , after research and experience the product , this be go to revolutinalize weight loss . people have be ask me what i ' m do and when i tell them they do n't believe it , so i just tell them to try it . why not ? it come with a 100 % money back guarantee ! " stanley k . , male , age 41 , pittsburgh , pa . " these product be amaze ! not only have i lose 15 pound in first month , my energy level be high and consistent throughout the day . the system be easy ; i ' ve never be able to lose weight like this ! i ' m actually eat more ! this have just blow me away . and the most incredible thing be that i ' ve have n't diet a bite with the exception of avoid excess starch . " for free , no obligation information about the slender now ( tm ) system , call toll free : 1-888 - 668-0615 due to the overwhelm response , you may get a busy signal . if you do call 1-888 - 841-6242
