Subject: anaphora resolution - - special issue of machine translation journal

call for papers the machine translation journal special issue on anaphora resolution in machine translation guest editor : ruslan mitkov ( university of wolverhampton ) the interpretation of anaphora be crucial for the successful operation of a machine translation system . in particular , it be essential to resolve the anaphoric relation when translate into language which mark the gender of pronoun . unfortunately , the majority of mt system develop in the seventy and eighty do not adequately address the problem of identify the antecedent of anaphor in the source language and produce the anaphoric " equivalent " in the target language . as a consequence , only a limit number of mt system have be successful in translate discourse , rather than isolate sentence . one reason for this situation be that in addition to anaphora resolution be itself a very complicate task , translation add a further dimension to the problem in that the reference to a discourse entity encode by a source language anaphor by the speaker ( or writer ) have not only to be identify by the hearer ( translator or translation system ) but also re-encode in a coreferential expression in a different language . the ninety have see an intensification of research effort in anaphora resolution in machine translation . this can be see in the grow number of relate project which have report promise new result ( e . g . wada 1990 ; leass & schwall 1991 ; nakaiwa & ikehara 1992 ; chen 1992 ; saggion & carvalho 1994 ; preu _ et al . 1994 ; nakaiwa et al . 1994 ; nakaiwa et al . 1995 ; nakaiwa & ikehara 1995 ; mitkov et al . 1995 ; mitkov et al . 1997 ) . however , we still feel that additional work be need to highlight and further explore the specifics of the problem in operational mt environment , include fully automatic machine translation and machine - aid translation . we be invite high-quality , original research papers describe recent advance in anaphora resolution in machine translation . topic to be address include ( but be not limit to ) - operational anaphora resolution component in machine translation - resolution of zero pronoun in mt environment - lexical transfer of anaphor across language - to what extent have the latest trend toward knowledge-poor , corpus - drive and robust approach in anaphora resolution , be call upon in machine translation ? - what be the most scalable contributory factor / resolution strategy in mt ? - what make anaphora resolution a more complex task in machine translation ? submission and format article should be submit directly to the publisher , either by e-mail to ellen . klink @ wkap . nl , with the subject header " submission to coat anaphora special issue " , or in hard-copy to machine translation editorial office kluwer academic publisher p . o . box 990 3300 az dordrecht the netherland or machine translation editorial office kluwer academic publisher p . o . box 230 accord , ma 02018-023 u . s . a . the submission deadline be 15 may 1997 . the journal be typeset use latex , so the prefer medium for submission of article in electronic format be latex source ( use the kluwer style file ) or gzip postscript . for more detail , please consult the journal 's web page : home page : http : / / kapi . www . wkap . nl / journalhome . htm / 0922-6567 instruction for author : http : / / kapi . www . wkap . nl / kaphtml . htm / ifa0922-6567 latex style file : http : / / kapi . www . wkap . nl / jrnlstyle . htm / 0922-6567 if submit hard-copy , four copy of the paper be require . the length of the papers should be approximately 10-20 page if use the kluwer style file ( around 20k word ) . author be also request to send a copy of an abstract of not more than 200 word to the guest editor r . mitkov @ wlv . ac . uk or in hard-copy to ruslan mitkov , school of language and european study , university of wolverhampton , stafford st . , wolverhampton wv1 1sb , unite kingdom . guest editor : ruslan mitkov school of language and european study university of wolverhampton stafford st . wolverhampton wv1 1sb telephone ( 44-1902 ) 322471 fax ( 44-1902 ) 322739 email r . mitkov @ wlv . ac . uk guest editorial board : breck baldwin ( university of pennsylvanium , philadelphium ) david carter ( sri international , cambridge ) guenter goerz ( university of nuernberg / erlangen ) lynette hirschman ( mitre , mclean ) richard kittredge ( university of montreal ) susan luperfoy ( mitre , mclean ) tony mcenery ( lancaster university ) ruslan mitkov ( university of wolverhampton ) frederique segond ( ranx xerox , grenoble ) harold somer ( umist , manchester ) keh - yih su ( national tsing hua university , taiwan ) yorick wilk ( university of sheffield )
