Subject: current topic in constraint - base theory of germanic syntax ( 2 . cfp )

abstract due : 15 . february esslli-98 workshop on current topics in constraint-based theories of germanic syntax august 17 - 21 , 1998 a workshop hold as part of the 10th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli-98 ) august 17 - 28 , 1998 , saarbrueken , germany * * second call for papers * * organizers : tibor kiss and detmar meurer ( ibm germany and univ . tuebingen ) web site : http : / / www . dc . warwick . ac . uk / ~ esslli98 / workshop . html background : a number of approach to germanic language ( exclude english ) have be develop in constraint-base theory like hpsg and lfg . apart from the issue of empirical adequacy , formal issue be raise , among them : - the nature of complex predicate and the mechanism use to formalize them - linearization versus movement analysis of various phenomenon - the nature of functional projection - configurational and non-configurational property of scope determination the idea of this workshop be to provide a forum to present and discuss current approach explore such empirical and formal issue of the syntax of germanic language ( exclude english ) . focus on germanic rather than on a particular syntactic theory be intend to allow for more inter-framework discussion . workshop format : the workshop will consist of five session , with two 30 + 10 - minute presentation in each session . submission : all researcher in the area , but especially ph . d . student and young researcher , be encourage to submit an extend abstract of 2000-3000 word either as hardcopy or electronically ( postscript only ) . the accept papers will be make available in a summer school reader . if sufficiently many high-quality papers be submit , we intend to publish them in an edit volume . submission should be send before 15 . february 1998 to one of the follow two organizer : tibor kiss detmar meurer ibm germany universitaet tuebingen vangerowstr . 18 seminar fuer sprachwissenschaft d-69115 heidelberg kleine wilhelmstr . 113 germany d-72074 tuebingen germany tibor @ heidelbg . ibm . com dm @ sf . nphil . uni-tuebingen . de registration : workshop contributor will be require to register for esslli-98 , but they will be eligible for a reduce registration fee . important dates : feb 15 , 98 : deadline for submission apr 15 , 98 : notification of acceptance may 15 , 98 : deadline for final copy aug 17 , 98 : start of workshop further information : to obtain further information about esslli-98 please visit the esslli-98 home page at http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / essllus
