Subject: language resource & evaluation workshop

workshop announcement and call for papers linguistic coreference workshop 26 may 1998 , morn session held in conjunction with the first international conference on language resource and evaluation granada , spain ( 28-30 may 1998 ) workshop aims it be essential , for a natural language process system , to instantiate each object , process , attribute , and property correctly , so that all reference to the same item be recognize as such and an inventory of all distinct item be accurate at all time . this problem be far from be resolve . there be both linguistic and computational reason for this deficiency . first , there be no satisfactory microtheory of linguistic coreference . secondly and consequently , there be no satisfactory application of such a microtheory to nlp . a microtheory of coreference in natural language include in its scope all the phenomenon that satisfy the follow condition : an object / entity , an event , an attribute , a property or its value , an attitude , or any combination of the above be refer to more than once in a natural-language text , and the understand of the text depend on the correct interpretation of the two or more refer expression as designate the same object , event , etc . a linguistic microtheory of coreference for a language consist of the follow element : - a complete range of cover phenomenon in the language ; - a taxonomy of the range ; - a typology of the range ; - a list of rule form the various type of coreference ; - a list of rule interpret the various type of coreference . there have be a considerable amount of work on a few select type of coreference , focus almost exclusively on object coreference . thus , significant work have be do in theoretical linguistics on anaphora and cataphora , subsume , for the large part , earlier work on deixi . a small minority of author have try to extend their study of anaphora beyond mere syntax . in the cognitive-linguistic and philosophy-of - language tradition , interest work have be do relate anaphora and deixi to ambiguity resolution and discourse structure . at the same time , an effort in comparative-contrastive linguistics have lead some writer to examine the datum of more than one language at a time , still emphasize entity or object reference . in computational linguistics , the problem of coreference take early on the form of pronoun antecedent resolution , and this particular task , somewhat broaden to include a few other type of anaphora , still remains in the center of the problem . the most sustain effort in the computational treatment of coreference have be mount within the tipster / muc - 6 initiative . while it have be recognize since quite early in the game that coreference resolution be base in large part on world knowledge , most of the work do on the matter computationally and theoretically ignore and avoid world knowledge . the muc - 6 initiative make such an orientation quite explicit : the work should be base on such simpler resource as part-of - speech tag , simple noun phrase recognition , basic semantic category information like , gender , number , and [ to a limit extent ] full parse tree . such an approach - - try to explore and maximize everything that can be do simply and cheaply toward the resolution of a complex program - - be perfectly legitimate as long as it be realize that a considerable part of the problem remains unsolve , and it be indeed realize fully well within the muc - 6 initiative . one persistent problem throughout the exist computational venture into coreference have be the lack of a consistent theoretical approach to it . the result be that coreference phenomenon be treat as self-obvious , and most of them be overlook , especially if they be not explicit pronoun-antecedent or other equally evident anaphora case . what be need for a full , accurate , and reliable approach to coreference can be summarize , somewhat schematically , as involve the follow step : 1 . understand fully the range of the phenomenon and of the rule that govern it ( theory ) ; 2 . determine the extent of machine-tractable information in the rule ; 3 . take stock of all the rule that can be compute ; 4 . develop the appropriate heuristic for the computable rule ; 5 . compute the rule . workshop agenda the workshop will be hold during the morn session of 26 may 1998 and will include a join address by the organize committee ( list above ) , follow by 5 - 8 individual presentation in two 90-120 - minute block , with a break provide midway through . call for papers the workshop solicit papers address any one or more of the point address above as well as any other pertinent issue . paper base on a diversity of language be encourage , both one language at a time and , especially , comparative / contrastive study . also strongly encourage be papers which extend the study of coreference beyond entity / object reference , across document boundary , and / or into non-text media . format for submission paper submission should consist of an extend abstract of approximately 800 word , along with a brief description of the propose presentation structure ( e . g . , paper , paper plus demo , etc . ) . each submission should include a separate title page , provide the follow information : the title to be print in the conference program ; name and affiliation of all author ; the full address of the primary author ( or alternate contact person ) , include phone , fax , email ; and require audio-visual equipment . paper may be submit by send three hardcopy or one softcopy ( in tex , ascii , or post-script format ) to the appropriate address as list below : dr . victor raskin chair , interdepartmental program in linguistic heavilon hall purdue university west lafayette , in 47907 usa vraskin @ purdue . edu submission must be receive no later than 1 march 1998 for a 15 march notification of paper acceptance . ( full version of all accept papers be request no later than 15 april 1998 for inclusion in the conference proceedings . ) workshop organizing committee dr . sara j . shelton ( contact person ) us department of defense 9800 savage road , r525 ft meade , md 20755 usa sjshelt @ afterlife . ncsc . mil 301-688 - 193 ( voice ) 301-688 - 0338 ( fax ) dr . eduard hovy information science institute university of southern californium 4676 admirality way marina del rey , ca 90292-669 usa hovy @ isus . edu 310-822 - 1511 , ext . 731 ( voice ) dr . victor raskin interdepartmental program in linguistic heavilon hall purdue university west lafayette , in 47907 usa vraskin @ purdue . edu 765-494 - 3782 ( voice ) 765-494 - 3780 ( fax )
