Subject: review of mon - khmer study 27

review of mon - khmer study , vol . 27 ( 1997 ) ; mahidol university at salaya , thailand , and summer institute of linguistic , dalla , texa , usa ; us $ 39 . 0 . review by neil h . olsen , neil . olsen @ cus . slc . ut . us volume 27 of mon - khmer study ( mks ) be dedicate to paul k . benedict on the occasion of his 85th birthday ( 5 july 1997 ) . tragically , dr . benedict die sixteen day later in an automobile accident . robert s . bauer write a memorial tribute which include a concise biography . follow bauer 's memorial , he and other mks editor have compile a bibliography of benedict \ 213 article , book , and conference papers - - the most current and complete publish to date . mks 27 be the third volume in the special series dedicate to recognize expert in the field of southeast asian linguistics . mks 25 be dedicate to the late andre haudricourt and mks 26 to david thoma , one of the found editor of mks in 1964 . mks 28 will resume the regular format of the journal . although mks be generally a journal devote to mon - khmer and austroasiatic language , it welcome article on other southeast asian language and language family . the 28 papers in this volume be more ambitious than previous mks volumes and represent a wide range of linguistic topic which reflect dr . benedict 's broad , eclectic , and sometime controversial interest . there be papers on chinese , japanese , taus , sino - tibetan , tibeto - burman , hmong - mien , austronesian , and , of course , austroasiatic . the main purpose of this review be to briefly summarize the various papers so that reader may select those article which interest them . the first paper be paul k . benedict 's , " interphylum flow in southeast asium , " which be one of the keynote speech at the 4th international symposium on language and linguistic , pan - asiatic linguistic , hold in bangkok in january 1966 . benedict warn us that the field of southeast asian linguistic be the bosnium of historical linguistics - - a lovely landscape strew with land mine ! he playfully formulate a law of historical linguistic : the number of linguistic error perpetrate be inversely proportional to the median length of the root involve . the remainder of his paper be devote to explore sino - tibetan , mon - khmer , and austro - taus homeland ( with a map and diagram ) , distinguish between direct and stimulus diffusion in interphylum tone flow , and contrast affixation pattern among the superstock . finally , he trace a pair of mon - khmer loan - word , ' tiger ' and ' raptor ' , as they ' invade ' southeast asium . " on the track of austric : part ii , consonant mutation in early austroasiatic ' by la vaughn h . haye be a data-rich paper continue ( part i in mks 21 ) his effort to validate wilhem schmidt 's 1906 hypothesis that austroasiatic and austronesian be genetically relate and should be group under a new austric superstock . haye claim that diachronic change affect proto - austroasiatic obscure and conceal the linkage between ancient consonant and their modern reflex . these change have contribute to the difficulty of establish the lexical connection between austroasiatic and austronesian . this paper describe and detail four plre phonological shift - - palatalization , spirantization , assibilation , and voice - - which take place early in the history of the austroasiatic language family cause massive mutation in the consonant system . dipankar moral , in " north - east indium as a linguistic area , " delineate seven indian state - - with 220 language belong to the indo - european , sino - tibetan , and austroasiatic family - - as a linguistic area distinct from the rest of indium . list of common linguistic characteristic ( phonological , grammatical , and lexical feature ) bolster the argument of areal uniqueness . read this paper in conjunction with simon 's paper note below . michel ferlus , in ' le maleng bro et le vietnamien , describe the phonology and morphology of maleng bro , a viet - muong language speak in khammouan , lao . data from maleng shed light on viet - muong linguistic history , especially the syllable structure and ancient morphology of vietnamese and the development of its tone . david filbeck , in " the protasis - apodosis construction in mal , " give a structural and functional description of a topic-comment syntactic pattern in mal , a mon - khmer language speak in northern thailand . sujaritlak deepadung and suriya ratanakul , in " final particle in conversational mal ( thin ) , " discuss status , question , and mood sentence final particle in the ban sakat klang dialect of mal . daus qingxium and liu yan , in " analysis of the tone in the guangka subdialect of deang , " present a synchronic description and analysis of guangka tone . they compare guangka to other deang dialect with and without tone . deang be a mon - khmer language speak in southwest yunnan , china . this study contribute to further understand of the development of tone system in mon - khmer language . theraphan l . - thongkum , in " the place of lawus , harak , and tariang within bahnaric , " present the result of field work with mon - khmer language speak in sekong province , lao . ethnolinguistic datum and word list be include . lawus be classify as a west bahnaric language , while the place of harak and tariang within bahnaric be unclear at present . natalja m . spatar , in " imperative construction in cambodian , " note that the cambodian imperative paradigm consist of four category : 1st person sg . and pl . , 2nd person , and 3rd person . the center of this paradigm be the 2nd person imperative form : any imperative marker ( except oj ) can be use in a 2nd person imperative , and only 2nd person imperative can be use without any marker and without a subject . suwilaus premsrirat , in " linguistic contribution to the study of the northern khmer language of thailand in the last two decade , " survey the linguistic work , major development , and recent research that have be conduct on khmer ( cambodian ) as speak in thailand . a 3 - page bibliography be include . sophana srichampa , in " serial verb construction in vietnamese , " examine a specific verb construction in vietnamese - - a sequence of verb occur together with a non-overt subject and / or a non-overt object - - within the framework of government and bind theory . zhou zhizhus and yan qixiang , in their " on the genetic affiliation of vietnamese , " reopen the old debate concern whether vietnamese be a taus , austroasiatic , or chinese language . they compare 159 basic vocabulary item from vietnamese with thaus and zhuang ( taus language ) and wa , blang , and palaung ( austroasiatic language ) . focus on a 40 % cognate rate with wa , they examine phonetic and grammatical similarity between vietnamese and wa and confirm that vietnamese be indeed an austroasiatic language . i . m . simon , in " on first look into paul k . benedict 's sino - tibetan , " use benedict 1972 as a start point to compare khasus , a mon - khmer language speak in assam , with tibeto - burman , and with huffman 's ( 1990 ) mon and kur wordlist . this paper should be read in conjunction with moral 's paper note above . david bradley , in " what do they eat ? grain crop of the burmic group . " follow up on benedict 1972 and 1975 and take a closer look at the reconstruction of word for various grain crop within the burmic subgroup of sino - tibetan . bradley draw some conclusion about the implication of this reconstruction for the original homeland of the burmic , tibeto - burman , and sino - tibetan group . jame a . matisoff , in " dayang pumus phonology and adumbration of comparative qiangic , " analyze pumus 's complex phonology and tone in great detail . he discuss pumus 's place in the qiangic family and note that much internal reconstruction will be necessary before detail of the complex initial - and rhyme-correspondence will be figure out . pumus be a taus language speak in yunnan , china . helen potopova , in " semantic characteristic of the tibetan honorific form , " focus on word take honorific prefix , the original meaning of which be anatomical term . in tibetan , the choice to use an honorific form as oppose to a neutral form be determine by social stratification and the situation of the communication act itself . semantic and lexical evidence be present . george bedell , in " causative and clause union in laus ( chin ) , " examine causative construction in laus within a generative framework . laus , also call hakha chin , be speak in chin state , myanmar ( burma ) . ilium peiro , in " lolo - burmese linguistic archaeology , " discuss what linguistic datum suggest about speaker of proto - lolo - burmese ( plb ) . three main issue be discuss : ( 1 ) localization of plb homeland ; ( 2 ) absolute date for the disintegration of plb homeland ; and ( 3 ) some feature of plb cultural reconstruction . peiro propose that 3800-3600 year ago a highly develop culture flourish in yunnan , connect more with sub - himalayan culture than southeast asian . there be an appendix of plb cultural lexicon . k . s . nagaraja 's " kinship term in konyak naga " be a datum paper list kinship terminology collect for konyak naga , a tibeto - burman language of nagaland state in indium . jerold a . edmonson and kenneth j . gregerson , in their " outly kbe - taus : note on ta mit laha , " offer recent field note primarily on the phonology of laha , a kadaus language speak in northern vietnam . there be a brief overview of laha ethnolinguistic history along with comparative comment on the rather large share vocabulary with the taus branch . they conclude that the laha language of ta mit township will prove useful in future work in decipher the history of outlier kadaus language . wave form and pitch trajectory of two word be illustrate ; a map show laha group in vietnam and china be very useful . luo yongxian , in " expand the proto - taus lexicon - - a supplement to li ( 1977 ) , " examine a sizable number of new cognate set which substantially expand li 's seminal 1977 work . using lexical classification , the new cognate set be arrange by semantic field : nature and environment , agricultural term , etc . implication of lexical classification for subgroup in taus langauge be discuss and cognate rate be tabulate . qin xiaohang , in " evolution of the initial consonant cluster pl , kl , ml in the hongshiuhe vernacular of zhuang , " analyze the historical evolution of the initial consonant cluster pl , kl , ml in the hongshuihe vernacular , a northern dialect of zhuang , a taus language , speak in guangxus zhuang autonomous region in china . udom warotamasikkhadit , in " front and back topicalization in thaus , " observe that , in thaus , topicalization can occur at the begin of , in the middle of , or at the end of a sentence . illustrative sentence be give and it be conclude that topicalization be closely relate to emphasis . apiluck tumtavitikul , in " reflection on the x ' category in thaus , " question whether or not there be an intermediate level of x ' category in thaus . evidence be present for the existence of x ' in thaus , in particular , n ' and v ' , and most probably a ' and p ' as well , if a similar kind of argumentation be apply . there be a conclude discussion of the implication . martha ratliff , in " hmong - mien demonstrative and pattern persistence , " examine the persistence of a 3 - way , person-orient demonstrative system in the hmong - mien ( miao - yao ) family . the hmong daw ( white hmong ) demonstrative ko ' that-near you ' be discuss in detail . ratliff comment on the implication of pattern persistence in relation to southeast asium areal type , relexification , and hmong - mien as austro - taus . christiane cormo , in " toward a constructivist approach of the japanese ' passive ' , " recategorize japanese passive verb accord to the pronominal approach in a constructivist framework . joseph f . kess and tadao miyamoto , in " psycholinguistic aspect of hanjus process in chinese , " explore the psycholinguistic dimension of logographic hanjus character process and linguistic recognition in chinese . they review the current literature on the subject and attempt to synthesize the conflict explanation offer by two oppose theoretical model of chinese lexical access , word recognition , and the architecture of the chinese mental lexicon . the final paper in the volume , ernest w . lee 's , " austronesian for ordinary speaker of austronesian language " demonstrate the pedagogical technique of introduce the notion of a proto-language and daughter language to non-linguist austronesian speaker from the solomon island and vanuatu use roglaus ( vietnam ) and maguindanao ( philippine ) cognate . erra for two article that appear in mks 26 , and a publication list of the institute of language and culture for rural development at mahidol university complete this issue . solicit , compile , and edit article for inclusion in dedicatory or special issue of journal be difficult in itself ; the editor of mks have do an admirable job on the last three volumes . my only criticism be that in a few papers ( e . g . , ratliff , cormo ) , some work cite be not reference in the bibliography , make it difficult to follow up on an interest topic . bibliography benedict , paul k . 1972 sino - tibetan : a conspectus . jame a matisoff , contribute ed . cambridge : cambridge university press . benedict , paul k . 1975 austro - thaus language and culture . new haven : human relation area file . huffman , franklin e . 1990 burmese mon , thaus mon , and nyah kur : a synchronic comparison . mks 16-17 : 31-84 . li , fang - kueus . 1977 a handbook of comparative taus . oceanic linguistic special publication , 15 . honolulu : the university press of hawaius . the author of this review be neil h . olsen , information planner with salt lake city corporation . he earn a m . a . in linguistics from the university of utah in 1994 . olsen have be an adjunct instructor at the english language institute , university of utah . hbe linguistic interest focus on south bahnaric language , where he do field work with koho speaker in vietnam ( 1967-68 ) and in north carolina ( 1997 ) . he be currently work on a koho grammar and dictionary .
