Subject: mental lexicon

call for papers international conference on the mental lexicon september 3 - 5 , 1998 university of alberta edmonton , alberta , canada host by : the mcri international mental lexicon research group department of linguistic , university of alberta sponsor by : social science and humanity research council of canada , the university of alberta local organizer : gary libben submission deadline : march 16 , 1998 the international conference on the mental lexicon be solicit abstract for papers or poster that bear on the question of how morphologically simple and complex word be represent in the mind ( their morphological , phonological , syntactic , and semantic property ) , how they be link to one another , and how they be access in the process of language production and comprehension . we welcome submission of theoretical , psycholinguistic , neurolinguistic , and computational research . * conference location the conference will be hold on the campus of the university of alberta . the university be locate in the city of edmonton and be one the largest reseach-intensive university in canada . the canadian rocky and the mountain town of banff and jasper be a 3 - 4 hour drive from the city . * scientific committee gonium jarema , chair , university of montreal , canada ria de bleser , universitat potsdam , germany bruce derw , university of alberta , canada eva kehayium , mcgill university , canada gary libben , university of alberta , canada jussus niemus , university of joensuu , finland loraine obler , cuny graduate center , u . s . a . * publication of proceedings select papers will be publish in the conference proceedings . * how to submit abstracts abstract should be less than 500 word in length ( exclude reference ) and may be submit by mail , e-mail , or fax . submission must be receive by march 16 , 1998 . at the top of the abstract please include your name , affiliation , address , telephone and fax number , and e-mail address . please leave several line between this information and the title and body of the abstract so that the header information can be remove for anonymous abstract review . also indicate at the top of your abstract , your preference for paper or poster presentation ( i . e . , paper only , poster only , paper or poster ) . send your abstract to : gonium jarema centre de recherche institut universitaire de geriatrie de montreal 4565 chemin queen mary montreal , quebec canada h3w 1w5 e-mail : jarema @ ere . umontreal . ca fax : ( 514 ) 340-3548 * for questions or more information on the conference please check our conference website : http : / / www . ualberta . ca / ~ lingui / lexiconf . html or contact gary libben tel : ( 403 ) 492-3434 fax : ( 403 ) 492-0806 e-mail : gary . libben @ ualberta . ca
