Subject: workshop on analogy

workshop advance in analogy research : integration of theory and data from the cognitive , computational , and neural science sofium , july 17-20 , 1998 aim : this workshop be intend to stimulate the researcher in the field of analogy to cooperate more intensively and to integrate various approach and datum in their study . it aim be to advance our understand of the cognitive mechanism of analogy-make , i . e . how people notice / perceive analogy , how they retrieve analog from memory or how they construct them , how they map and transfer knowledge from one domain to another , how they combine knowledge from multiple analog or how they combine analogy with rule-base reason , how they generalize and learn from the analogy make , how they use analogy for problem solve , explanation , argumentation , creation . what be the place of analogy among the various cognitive process , such as perception , think , memory , learn , etc . what be the role of analogy in human development ? which be the brain structure involve in analogy-make process ? what kind of deficit do brain-damage patient exhibit ? this workshop will be highly interdisciplinary and will make a serious attempt to integrate the knowledge researcher have accumulate on analogy-make in various domain : artificial intelligence / computational modele , cognitive psychology , developmental psychology , neuropsychology , philosophy , cognitive linguistic , as well as various application in education , legal and political reason , etc . a serious attempt will be make to integrate all the positive result obtain so far in theory of analogy-make , computational model , and experimental work . the workshop participant will participate in numerous formal and informal discussion which we hope will lead to systematization of the knowledge in the field , formulate establish fact , open issue , and idea for new approach . format of the workshop : the workshop will consist of key talk ( 45 min ) ( see the list of key talk ) , short papers ( 20 min ) , poster presentation , round table thematic discussion , work group session , informal discussion , conclude discussion on idea for future work and cooperative project . pre - proceeding of the workshop ( contain all the accept papers ) will be publish in advance and distribute to the participant , so that we can focus on discussion and join work at the workshop . submission instruction paper and poster submission should be make both electronically ( in rtf format ) and in hard copy ( a4 or us letter ( 11 " x 8 . 5 " ) paper format ) follow these instruction . paper should be no more than 8 page long , poster abstract - one page . the text should be format in two column with an overall width of 14 cm and length of 20 cm , with 0 . 7 cm between the column . use 10 point time roman with 11 point vertical space , unless otherwise specify . the title should be 14 point , bold , center , 0 . 5 cm below the top margin . author ' name should be in 11 point , bold , and center ; author ' affiliation , postal address , and e-mail address should be in ordinary 10 point , center . first - level heading should be 12 point , bold , initial cap , and center . second - level heading should be 11 point , initial cap , bold , and flush leave . third - level heading should be 10 point , bold , initial cap , and flush leave . use standard apa citation format , e . g . ( mcclelland & rumelhart , 1981 ) . send your submission electronically to analogy @ cog . nbu . acad . bg and my regular mail to : boicho kokinov - analogy ' 98 cognitive science department new bulgarian university 21 , montevideo str . sofium 1635 , bulgarium timetable deadline for workshop registration - march 1st , 1998 deadline for submission of papers - march 1st , 1998 deadline for poster abstract - march 20th , 1998 notification of acceptance - april 15th , 1998 invite participant ' deadline for papers - june 1st , 1998 publication of the workshop proceeding - june 30th , 1998 workshop - july 17-20 , 1998 , ( arrival 16th , departure 21st ) participant and fund participation in the workshop be mainly by invitation to ensure high quality and balance of representative of various school of think , of various discipline , of various country and continent . the organizer hope that all these school and geographic region will be represent . the follow list of invitee be provisional and open for addition . the workshop be , however , open to other participant as well , up to the upper limit of 50 participant . the organizer be look for some fund which would allow us to support some of the participant for their participation in the workshop . however , as this be still uncertain , we would like to kindly ask the potential participant to look for their own fund source and to try to ensure their participation in advance . co - event the workshop will take place during the 5th international summer school in cognitive science ( july 13-25 , 1998 ) which will offer an opportunity to have external critic and advisor from well know researcher work in other area of cognitive science . location sofium be an old city first establish by the thracian about 4000bc . there be still some ruin from the old roman time city . the national history museum hold some fascinate gold treasure from thracian time . there be a small church with fresco from the 12th century paint in a realistic renaissance style a long time before the renaissance in europe start . not very far from sofium be the beautiful rilum monastery as well as some old town like plovdiv ( with an old town part and a roman amphitheater ) and koprivstitza . you may also want to combine your trip with a holyday at the black sea side . organize committee : dedre gentner ( northwestern univ . , usa ) gentner @ nwu . edu - co - director keith holyoak ( univ . of californium at lo angele , usa ) holyoak @ lifescus . uclum . edu edu - co - director boicho kokinov ( new bunlgarian univ . , bulgarium ) kokinov @ cog . nbu . acad . bg edu - co - director robert french ( univ . of liege , belgium ) rfrench @ ulg . ac . be erica meli ( univ . of saarland , germany ) meli @ c . uni-sb . de list of key talk umberto eco - ( not confirm yet ) dougla hofstadter - analogy as the core of cognition keith holyoak - the place of analogy in a physical symbol system dedre gentner - comparison and cognition gille fauconnier - analogy and conceptual integration jaime carbonell - analogy in problem solve , from the routine to the creative boicho kokinov - analogy be like cognition : complex , emergent , context - sensitive mark keane - why conceptual combination be seldom analogy david premack - analogy in chimpanzee andy meltzoff - the origin and early development of analogy in the preverbal period usha goswamus - analogical reason in children graeme halford - the problem of structural complexity in cognitive process : a metric base on representational rank ken forbus - qualitative mental model : simulation or memory ? paul thagard - emotional analogy jame hampton - analogy be like categorization : thought on the role of conceptual structure in analogical reason adam bielum - analogical reson as a base for structure cognitive schema in new situation : a case of economic transformation in post - communist country list of invite participant ron ferguson ( northwestern university , usa ) ferguson @ il . nwu . edu ken kurtz ( northwestern university , usa ) kjk @ nwu . edu arthur markman ( columbium university , usa ) markman @ paradox . psych . columbium . edu john hummel ( ucla , usa ) jhummel @ lifescus . uclum . edu richard catrambone ( georgium institute of technology , usa ) rc7 @ prism . gatech . edu charle wharton ( national institute of health , usa ) wharton @ codon . nih . gov barbara spellman ( u . of virginium , usa ) spellman @ psyvax . psy . utexa . edu laura novick ( vanderbilt university , usa ) novicklr @ ctrvax . vanderbilt . edu mary jo rattermann ( hampshire , usa ) mratter1 @ swarthmore . edu judy deloache ( u . of illinoi , usa ) jdeloach @ [ s . psych . ] uiuc . edu manuelum veloso ( cmu , usa ) mmv @ c . cmu . edu david leake ( indiana university , usa ) leake @ c . indiana . edu robert goldstone ( indiana university , usa ) rgoldsto @ uc . indiana . edu jim marshall ( indiana university , usa ) marshall @ cogscus . indiana . edu brian bowdle ( indiana university , usa ) bbowdle @ indiana . edu melanie mitchell ( santa fe institute , usa ) mm @ santafe . edu miriam bassok ( u . of washington , usa ) mbassok @ u . washington . edu roger thompson ( franklin & marshall college , lancaster , pa , usa ) r _ thompson @ acad . fandm . edu nancy nersessian ( georgium tech , usa ) nancyn @ cc . gatech . edu john clement ( university of massachuset , ma , usa ) jclement @ educ . umass . edu eve sweetser ( uc berkeley , usa ) sweetser @ cogscus . berkeley . edu adele goldberg ( ucsd , usa ) aegoldberg @ ucsd . edu lokendra shastrus ( uc berkeley , usa ) schastrus @ icsus . berkeley . edu thoma ward ( texa a&m university , usa ) tbw @ psyc . tamu . edu ronald finke ( texa a&m university , usa ) raf @ psyc . tamu . edu jim herriot ( sun , usa ) jim . herriot @ eng . sun . com cameron shelley ( u . of waterloo , canada ) cpshelle @ watart . uwaterloo . ca bipin indurkhya ( tokyo university of agriculture and technology , japan ) bipin @ cc . tuat . ac . jp hiroakus suzukus ( aoyama gakuin university , japan ) susan @ rus . aoyama . ac . jp tony plate ( victorium u of wellington , new zealand ) tony . plate @ mcs . vuw . ac . nz penttus kanerva ( sics , sweden ) kanerva @ sic . se robert french ( university of liege , belgium ) rfrench @ ulg . ac . be john a barnden ( university of birmingham , uk ) < j . a . barnden @ c . bham . ac . uk > michael ramscar ( university of edinburgh , uk ) michael @ aisb . ed . ac . uk bruce burn ( u . of potsdam , germany ) burn @ persius . rz . uni-potsdam . de friedrich wilken ( u . of tuebingen , germany ) wilk @ mailserv . zdv . uni-tuebingen . de friedrich . wilken @ uni-tuebingen . de michael waldmann ( max - planck institute of psychological research in munich , germany ) waldmann @ mpipf-muenchen . mpg . de meredith gatti ( max - planck institute of psychological research in munich , germany ) gatti @ mpipf-muenchen . mpg . de erica meli ( univ . of saarland , germany ) meli @ c . uni-sb . de cristina cacciarus ( university of bologna , italy ) cacciarus @ psibo . unibo . it stellum vosniadou ( university of athen , greece ) svosniad @ atlas . uoa . ariadne-t . gr merry bullock ( university of vilnus , estonium ) mxb . apa @ email . apa . org , merry @ vm . ee maciej haman ( university of warsaw , poland ) meh @ scus . psych . uw . edu . pl dan simon ( haifa university , israel ) dsimon @ research . haifa . ac . il
