Subject: ecml ' 98 tanlps workshop : first call for paper

ecml-98 workshop : first call for paper ecml-98 workshop : toward adaptive nlp - drive system : linguistic information , learn method and application organize by : r . basilus , m . t . pazienza ( university of roma , tor verga ) , italy since most of the application , from syntactic to semantic , be lexicon drive , systematic and reliable acquisition on a large scale of linguistic information be the real challenge to natural language process ( nlp ) . empiricist view on natural language process and learn have become recently more attractive for a wider research community : computational linguistics , artificial intelligence , psychology then seem to converge on a specific data-orient perspective aim to overcome the traditional knowledge acquisition bottleneck . it have be often note that the limit attention pay by the machine learn community to text and speech datum seem unjustify . it be thus more and more evident that empirical learn of natural language process ( nlp ) can alleviate the nlp main problem by means of a variety of method for the automatic induction of lexical knowledge . lexical knowledge be often hard to compile by hand , and even harder to port and reuse . nlp application system have still a low impact on real world problem , mainly due to the cost relate to reusability and customization of the require lexicon . in particular change in the domain , cause change in the lexical information require in the underlie natural language . empirical , symbolic machine learn method can be perfectly suit for this task like automatic acquisition and adaptation of this klnowledge . rule induction , symbolic approach to cluster , lazy learn , and inductive logic program , have be already propose by a grow community that be enter the challenge for theoretical ( i . e . methodological ) and application purpose a variety of technique seem to be combine in order to successfully design realistic inductive system for text process : the target of this research be methodological and design principle for system combine linguistic and lexical learn capability for large scale language process task . this be what we mean with adaptive nlp - drive system . within this research enterprise , some issue can favour a sinergistic process between nlp and ml area : the access to large datum set , that be even increase over time , due to the telematic facility available nowaday ; extend the set of typical class of ml problem to other hard case ( particularly dense in the nlp process ) ; add inductive capability to nlp system for task relate to specific application ( i . e . information extraction ) . the propose workshop be thus aim to stimulate reasearch and discussion on the follow aspect : - establish result and evidency on the suitability of different ml paradigm on specific level of representation of lexical knowledge ( morphology , syntax , linguistic inference among other ) - comparison of the quantitative approach to lexical acquisition with empirical symbolic method - stimulate discussion on cognitive perspective of some model within a plausible architecture for language process and learn - establish result on the applicability of the extract / induce knowledge within nlp system , with respect to assess evaluation criterion , typical of the ml and language engineer ( le ) area - case study on adaptive nlp system , i . e . effective nlp system integrate linguistic inference with inductive capability ( www kb at cmu , ecran ) , - critical review of exist experience on adaptive nlp system - establish guideline for an evaluation framework of adaptive nlp system : accuracy of the linguistic process , robustness of the induction process , . . . - promote cooperation among research group in europe and usa to exchange idea , datum and tool for design and experiment architecture for adaptive nlp system workshop format : the workshop be expect to cover the whole day . in the first session , a part from an invite talk , we expect to cover methodological issue . paper relate to advance research on suitability of learn paradigm for the different target lexical information will be favour . prototypical example in this area be study on empirical learn of task like pos tag , induction of grammatical information , symbolic learn of word sense disambiguation criterion and lexical semantic information . a panel discussion be expect to close the morn session and focus on principle of suitability for learn paradigm v . lexical level . in the second half of the day we expect to stimulate partecipant to cover application area , like ir and ie , by a couple of invite talk on exist adaptive system as a basis for present novel aspect on integration of nlp capability with learn from experience ( example , error , performance ) . a set of at least other 3 or 4 papers be expect to concentrate on original research work that we know be currently under development in several reasearch centre in europe ( sheffield university , tilburg , rome tor verga and torino university ) . a panel discussion on the implication of the adaptive paradigm on exist and potential nlp system will close the workshop . program committee r . basilus ( university of roma , tor verga , italy ) m . craven ( carnegie mellon university , usa ) w . daeleman ( university of tilburg , nederlands ) m . t . pazienza ( university of roma , tor verga , italy ) l . saitta ( university of torino , italy ) c . samuelssonn ( bell lab , at&t , usa ) y . wilk ( university of sheffield , uk ) paper submission : = = = = = = = = = = = = paper should not exceed 3000 word or 6 page hard copy submission : three copy of the paper should be send to : roberto basilus department of computer science , system and production university of roma , tor verga via dus tor verga 91 roma ( italy ) e-mail : basilus @ info . utovrm . it electronic submission : electronic submission may be in either self-contain postscript or rtf format , to basilus @ info . utovrm . it for each submission - - whether hard copy or electronic - - a separate plain ascius text email message should be send to roberto basilus , contain the follow information : # name : name of first author # title : title of the paper # pages : number of page # files : name of file ( if attachment be submit electronically ) # note : any relevant instruction # keys : keyword # email : email of the first author # abstr : abstract of the paper . . . . . . timetable : workshop announcement and call for paper : 5 january 1998 paper due : 15 february 1998 notification of acceptance : 5 march 1998 final version due : 25 march 1998 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - roberto basilus department of computer science , system and production university of roma , tor verga via dus tor verga 91 roma ( italy ) e-mail : basilus @ info . utovrm . it tel : + 39 - 6 - 7259 7391 fax : + 39 - 6 - 7259 7460 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
