Subject: sle 31

call for paper , sle 31 , st andrew , scotland , 26-30 august 1998 workshop on modality in generative grammar the description and analysis of modality be of central interest to the study of human language . modality interact with many subsystem of syntax and a better understand of modality would further our understand of these subsystem greatly . the relevant subsystem play a role in the exist analysis of the epistemic-deontic dichotomy . this have be attribute to : ( i ) argument structure ( e . g . ross 1969 ) : epistemic modal be one-place predicate ( correspond to raise verb syntactically ) , wherea deontic modal be two-place predicate ( correspond to control verb syntactically ) . ( ius ) insertion position : epistemic modal be generate in i , deontic modal in v ( e . g . picallo 1990 ) . ( iius ) lf position : epistemic modal be in c , deontic modal in vp ( e . g . mcdowell 1987 ) . ( iv ) nature of the complement of a modal : a definite verbal complement with epistemic modal and an indefinite verbal complement with deontic modal ( e . g . barbier 1995 ) . v ) pragmatic : the dichotomy be contextually determine and do not correspond to a syntactic difference ( kratzer 1989 ) . many question still need to be answer before a sufficiently adequate analysis can be develop . as for argument structure , it should be ask what evidence we have that each modal have two different argument structure . if such evidence exist , be these argument structure represent in the lexicon , as in theta-theoretic account , or only syntactically ? relate question concern the categorial status of modal ( a special category aux in english , but main verb in german and dutch ) , the selectional restriction they impose on their complement ( semantically uniform , but not syntactically : only verbal complement in english , no categorial restriction in dutch , verbal and certain prepositional complement in german and afrikaans ) . as for their syntactic position at surface structure or lf , we need to know more about the ( scopal ) interaction of modal with negation . it be clear that there be a tight connection between modality and negation / affirmation : many language have a modal that behave as an negative polarity item ( english ` need ' , german ` brauchen ' , dutch ` hoeven ' ) . a relate issue be the interaction of modal with focus particle , especially those that have a negative or affirmative import , such as english ` only ' or french ` bien ' . it seem that such focus particle can alter the syntactic and semantic behaviour of modal . the ( scopal ) interaction of modal with other quantifier and modal with question operator be also in need of a better description and analysis . it have be claim that question formation and epistemic modality exclude each other . although this do not seem to hold in general , question formation and epistemic modality do seem to restrict each other in way that be poorly understand . the interaction of modal verb with modal adverbial be also relevant for the determination of the syntactic position of modal , particulary in view of cinque 's ( 1997 ) hypothesis that every sentence contain two modal projection that must be either fill by a modal adverbial in the specifier or by a modal verb in the head . many language have a construction with ` have to ' or ` be to ' that involve a modal interpretation . such construction do not generally have an epistemic interpretation ( but consider english ` he be never to see her again ' , dutch ` het be te verwachten dat . . . ' ` it be to be expect that . . . ' ) . there be a great many cross-linguistic peculiarity on this point , which be worth explore . for example , one question be how this type of construction , lack a visible modal element , yield a modal interpretation . there be a more general question concern modality : which property of modal be necessary for modality and which be accidental ? cross - linguistically , modal often have a irregular present tense inflection paradigm . it be unclear whether this be a necessary property of modal and if so , why . the fact that english modal be auxilary but modal in other language be not be presumably an accidental property , and so be the fact that english modal lack infinitive and participle in their paradigm , wherea dutch modal do have infinitival and participial form ( except for the verb ` zullen ' ` will ' ) . as it seem that the bulk of generative study of modality involve germanic language , we particularly invite papers on modality in romance and central european language . organizer : sjef barbier ( leiden ) , frit beukema ( leiden ) , olga tomic ( novus sad ) , milena milojevic sheppard ( ljubljana ) , marija golden ( ljubljana ) . please submit abstract ( 1 a4 max ) to : professor olga miseska tomic bulevar avnoja 109 / iii , stan 16 beograd yu 11070 yugoslavija e - mail : efilb01 @ yubgss21 . bg . ac . yu & dr sjef barbier hil / department of dutch study p . n . van eyckhof 3 leiden , nl 2300 ra the netherland e - mail : barbier @ rullet . leidenuniv . nl & dr frit beukema hil / department of english p . n . van eyckhof 4 leiden , nl 2300 ra the netherland e - mail : beukema @ rullet . leidenuniv . nl close date for submission of abstract : 15 may 1998 deat of acceptance / rejection of abstract : 1 july 1998
