Subject: the evaluation of parsing systems

the evaluation of parsing systems a workshop jointly organise by the cec language engineer 1 project sparkle and ecran to be hold at the first international conference on language resources and evaluation granada , spain , 26 may 1998 this workshop will provide a forum for researcher interest in the development and evaluation of natural language grammar and parse system , and in the creation of syntactically annotate reference corpus . organiser : john carroll , roberto basilus , nicoletta calzolarus , robert gaizauska , gregory grefenstette workshop scope and aims the aim of this workshop be to provide a forum for discussion of evaluation method for parse system , and proposal for the development of syntactically annotate language resource . with increase attention to evaluation of component technology in language engineer , evaluation of parse system be rapidly become a key issue . numerous method have be propose and while one , the parseval / penn treebank scheme , have gain wide usage , this have to some extent be due to the absence of workable alternative rather than to whole-heart support . parseval / ptb evaluation have several limitation and drawback , include a commitment to a particular style of grammatical analysis , and oversensitivity to certain innocuous type of misanalysis while fail to penalise other common type of more serious mistake . also , the original publish description of the scheme - - and the evaluation software widely distribute as a follow-up to it - - be specific to the english language . it may be that there be currently no alternative more workable scheme or proposal , but this need to be more fully discuss : this workshop will provide an opportunity for such a debate . this workshop be particularly timely give the large number of cec language engineer project that involve parse in one form or another and which need to evaluate and share the result of their effort . parse be an essential part of many larger application , such as information extraction , which have gain in importance over the last few year . often in such system , the strength of the parser and grammar have a direct effect on the desire result , and thus achieve good result rest on be able to determine and improve weakness in the parser / grammar . without a reliable parser evaluation method this cannot be do effectively . a parse evaluation workshop be also appropriate at this time give the imminent creation of large-scale syntactically annotate resource for european language . contribution from those involve in such activity be welcome , so as to improve communication between the resource construction and the resource utilisation community . this should ensure that the resource construct be maximally useful to the general language engineer community . the organisation of this workshop bring together two european language engineer project which be closely relate and whose partner share similar research interest : sparkle and ecran . the organiser solicit contribution from the general community on the follow topic : - description of generic syntactic annotation scheme - methodology and metric for parse system evaluation - report and analysis of the result of utilise particular parser evaluation scheme - description / analysis / experience of language-dependent ( especially for language other than english ) and task-dependent syntactic annotation scheme programme committee roberto basilus gregory grefenstette ted briscoe mark hepple nicoletta calzolarus tony mcenery john carroll maria teresa pazienza roberta catizone paolum velardus robert gaizauska yorick wilk paper submission paper should not exceed 4000 word or 10 page . submission may be in either hard copy or electronic form . the submission deadline be february 15th , 1998 . hard copy submission : three copy of the paper should be send to : dr john carroll cognitive and compute science university of sussex brighton bn1 9qh uk electronic submission : electronic submission may be in either self-contain latex , postscript , or rtf format , to john . carroll @ cog . susx . ac . uk . for each submission - - whether hard copy or electronic - - a separate plain ascius text email message should be send to john carroll , contain the follow information : # name : name of first author # title : title of the paper # pages : number of page # note : any relevant instruction # keys : keyword # email : email of the first author # abstr : abstract of the paper . . . . . . important dates paper submission deadline ( hard copy / electronic ) february 15th notification of acceptance march 10th camera - ready papers due april 10th workshop may 26th conference information general information about the conference be at : < http : / / www . icp . inpg . fr / elra / conflre . html > see < http : / / cere . ugr . e / ~ rubio / elra . html > for information on local arrangement specific query about the conference should be direct to : lrec secretariat facultad de traduccion e interpretacion dpto . de traduccion e interpretacion c / puentezuela , 55 18002 granada , spain tel : + 34 58 24 41 0 - fax : + 34 58 24 41 4 reli98 @ goliat . ugr . e
