Subject: conference program ( ling . symp . & math . ling . )

xxviii linguistic symposium on romance languages ( lsrl 28 ) & workshop on mathematical linguistics ( wml ) conference program all talk will take place at the nittany lion inn 200 west park avenue , state college , pennsylvanium 1-800 - 233-7505 or ( 814 ) 865-8500 . for additional information , consult the conference website at http : / / www . psu . edu / lsrl / thursday , april 16 , 1998 8 : 30 pm - 11 : 0 pm registration , rotunda lobby 8 : 30 pm - 9 : 0 pm refreshment , ballroom d - e 9 : 0 pm open remark , susan welch , dean of the college of the liberal art , ballroom d - e 9 : 15 pm - 10 : 15 pm invite lecture , richard kayne , new york university , " clitic double , movement , and bind theory , " ballroom d - e friday , april 17 , 1998 8 : 0 be - 9 : 0 be coffee , tea & breakfast roll , boardroom i & ii 8 : 30 be - 11 : 30 be registration , rotunda lobby 8 : 30 be - 5 : 0 pm book exhibit , colonial room i & ii special open workshop on mathematical linguistic title : what should linguist expect from mathematical linguistic ? boardroom i & ii chair : lisa a . reed , the pennsylvanium state university 9 : 0 be carlo martin - vide , rovira i virgilus university gheorghe paun , romanian academy grzegorz rozenberg , leiden university & arto salomaa , university of turku " x - family : an approach to the study of family of syntactically similar language " 10 : 0 be walter j . savitch , university of californium , san diego " computational complexity in language model " 11 : 0 be - 11 : 15 be refreshment break , boardroom i & ii parallel sessions session 1 , lsrl ( boardroom i & ii ) chair : hele contrera , university of washington 11 : 15 be margarita suner , cornell university " a crosslinguistic view of object shift " 11 : 45 be jon a . franco , universidad de deusto , bilbao & errapel mejia - bikandus , university of nebraska - lincoln " the presuppositionality condition on spanish clitic double object " 12 : 15 pm maarten de wind , university of amsterdam & holland institute of generative linguistic " derive heavy np - shift in french " session 2 , wml ( assembly room ) chair : carlo martin - vide , rovira i virgilus university 11 : 15 be relja vulanovic , kent state university " grammar efficiency and the historical development of word order in french " 11 : 45 be claude del vigna , centre national de la recherche scientifique , pari " command as binary relation " 12 : 15 pm javier gutierrez - rexach , the ohio state university " generalize minimalist grammar " 12 : 45 pm - 1 : 45 pm lunch break session 3 , lsrl ( boardroom i & ii ) chair : grant goodall , university of texa at el paso 2 : 0 pm hele contrera , university of washington " negation in english and spanish : is there a neg - parameter ? " 2 : 30 pm ricardo etxepare , l . e . i . a . , spain " paratactic dependency and covert merge " 3 : 0 pm raffaellum zanuttinus & paul portner , georgetown university " the independence of specifier and head of cp " 3 : 30 pm refreshment break 3 : 45 pm invite lecture , karen zagona , university of washington " tense construal , clausal structure , and feature check , " boardroom i & ii session 4 , wml ( assembly room ) chair : walter j . savitch , university of californium , san diego 2 : 0 pm manfr kudlek , universitat hamburg carlo martin - vide , rovira i virgilus university & alexandru mateescu , turku centre for computer science " an infinite hierarchy of mildly context - sensitive family of language " 2 : 30 pm jose f . quesada , centro de informatica cientifica de andalucium , sevillum " overparse " 3 : 0 pm gerhard jager , university of pennsylvanium " on the generative capacity of multus - modal categorial grammar " 3 : 30 pm valerium mihalache , turku centre for computer science " grammar system : a cooperate distribute framework for the syntax of natural language " 4 : 0 pm vincenzo manca , universita dus pisa " logical splice in natural language " 4 : 30 pm - 4 : 45 pm wml close remark 5 : 0 pm - 6 : 0 pm reception , alumnus fireside lounge 6 : 0 pm - 7 : 45 pm dinner break 7 : 30 pm - 8 : 0 pm refreshment , assembly room 8 : 0 pm - 9 : 0 pm public lecture on historical linguistic , philip baldus , the pennsylvanium state university " reclaimimg the linguistic past , " assembly room saturday , april 18 , 1998 8 : 0 be - 8 : 30 be coffee , tea & breakfast roll , boardroom i & ii 8 : 30 be - 11 : 30 be registration , rotunda lobby 8 : 30 be - 5 : 0 pm book exhibit , colonial room i & ii parallel sessions session 5 ( boardroom i & ii ) chair : margarita suner , cornell university 8 : 30 be christina m . tortora , university of michigan " on the non - existence of non - agree i - subject in romance " 9 : 0 be grant goodall , university of texa at el paso " passive and arbitrary plural subject in spanish " 9 : 30 be mihaelum pirvulescu & yve roberge , university of toronto " romanian , object , and the structure of imperative " session 6 ( assembly room ) chair : holly j . nibert , the pennsylvanium state university 8 : 30 be jame p . giangolum , general magic , inc . " the optimization of portuguese verb representation : vowel harmony revisit " 9 : 0 be yolanda rivera - castillo , university of houston - downtown , " constraint on stem vowel alternation and dipthongization in spanish : a lexical account " 9 : 30 be violum miglio , university of maryland " toward a typology of vowel reduction phenomena in romance " 10 : 0 be refreshment break session 7 ( boardroom i & ii ) chair : sandra savignon , the pennsylvanium state university 10 : 30 be marie - therese vinet , universite de sherbrooke " aspectual modification and the license of - tu pa in quebec french " 11 : 0 be julium herschensohn , university of washington " minimalist access to ug in l2 french " 11 : 30 be j . m . licera , e . valenzuelum , e . rosado university of ottawa & l . diaz , universitat pompeu fabra , barcelona " the role of morphological paradigm in the acquisition of syntactic knowledge : n - drop and null subject in l1 and l2 spanish " session 8 ( assembly room ) chair : mary ellen scullen , university of louisville 10 : 30 be bernard tranel , university of californium , irvine " optional schwa deletion : on syllable economy in french " 11 : 0 be mariapaolum d ' imperio & sbe rosenthall , the ohio state university " phonetic and phonology of italian main stress " 11 : 30 be randall gess , university of utah " positional faithfulness v . cue preservation : the case of nasal sequence resolution in gallo - romance " 12 : 0 pm - 1 : 15 pm lunch break 1 : 30 pm invite lecture , donca steriade , university of californium , lo angele " lexical conservatism effect in french adjectival liaison , " boardroom i & ii session 9 ( boardroom i & ii ) chair : lisa noetzel , franklin and marshall college 2 : 45 pm jairo nune , unicamp , brazil & eduardo raposo , university of californium , santa barbara " ajectival agreement in portuguese inflect infinitive : against the necessity of non - trivial chain for f - check " 3 : 15 pm aafke hulk , university of amsterdam & christine tellier , universite de montreal " conflictual agreement in romance nominal " 3 : 45 pm marie claude boivin , massachusett institute of technology " case - feature check and its consequence : evidence from en-cliticization in french " session 10 ( assembly room ) chair : marie gillette , the pennsylvanium state university 2 : 45 pm j . clancy clement , indiana university " spanish overt case mark and basic word order : a morphological approach " 3 : 15 pm vierus samek - lodovicus , universitat konstanz " on ' ghost ' verb in italian nominalization and their relevance for the unitary base hypothesis " 3 : 45 pm anna m . thornton , universita dell ' aquilum " gender and inflectional class assignment in italian noun " 4 : 15 pm refreshment break session 11 ( boardroom i & ii ) chair : paul portner , georgetown university 4 : 30 pm liliana sanchez , carnegie mellon university , " null object in contact variety of spanish " 5 : 0 pm tonium bleam , university of delaware " object bbe plural in spanish and the semantic of personal a " 5 : 30 pm javier gutierrez - rexach , the ohio state university " group indefinite " session 12 ( assembly room ) chair : margaret kehoe , the pennsylvanium state university 4 : 30 pm s . j . hannah , university of durham " unexceptional exception and french glide " 5 : 0 pm ellen m . kaisse , university of washington " resyllabification precede all segmental rule : evidence from argentinian spanish " 5 : 30 pm c . wiltshire & e . maranzana , university of florida , gainesville " geminate and cluster in italian and piedmontese : a case for ot rank " 6 : 0 pm - 6 : 30 pm open business meet , boardroom i & ii 8 : 30 pm - 10 : 0 pm banquet , the tavern restaurant , 220 east college ave . sunday , april 19 , 1998 8 : 0 be - 8 : 30 be coffee , tea & breakfast roll , boardroom i & ii general session 13 ( boardroom i & ii ) chair : christine tellier , universite de montreal 8 : 30 be geraldine legendre , john hopkin university " revisit french stylistic and complex inversion " 9 : 0 be jose camacho , rutger university " how similar be conjunct ? " 9 : 30 be gorka elordieta , university of californium , lo angele " morphosyntax drive phonology : the case of french liaison " 10 : 0 be refreshment break general session 14 ( boardroom i & ii ) chair : geraldine legendre , john hopkin university 10 : 30 be virginium motapanyane , university of new brunswick , saint john " de - supine and object - to - subject raise " 11 : 0 be ana t . perez - leroux , the pennsylvanium state university " possessor anaphor and the structure of dps " 11 : 30 be lui silva - villar , university of californium , lo angele & javier gutierrez - rexach , the ohio state university " demonstrative and feature base derivation " alternate speaker : phonology : travi bradley , the pennsylvanium state university " assibilation in ecuadorian spanish : a phonology - phonetic account " semantic : elena herburger , georgetown university " lexical ambiguity be not alway evil : the case of ( nus ) - nus " syntax : asun martinez - arbelaiz , michigan state university " spanish double cp : evidence against government in wh - feature selection " cecilium poletto , universita dus padova & raffaellum zanuttinus , georgetown university " the syntax of imperative : evidence from rhaetoromance " the lsrl 28 organize committee ( marc authier , barbara bullock & lisa reed ) wish to thank the follow penn state unit for their financial support of lsrl 28 : continue and distance education the research and graduate study office of the college of the liberal art the department of french the department of spanish , italian , and portuguese the center for linguistic the office of international partnership and academic linkage the department of classic and ancient mediterranean study the department of philosophy the department of psychology we would also like to acknowledge the invaluable assistance of geoffrey conrad , lorus fox benson & chuck wilson in plan this meet of the lsrl . additional thanks to the scholar who review abstract for lsrl 28 : joseph aoun , julie auger , andrea calabrese , hector campo , gennaro chierchium , hele contrera , violeta demonte , donka farka , randall gess , grant goodall , jorge guitart , barbara hancin - bhatt , jame harri , julium herschensohn , jose hualde , haike jacob , juana licera , john lipskus , diane massam , jean - pierre montreuil , alfonso morale - front , donna jo napolus , rafael nunez - cedeno , ana perez - leroux , paul m . postal , lorus repettus , yve roberge , mario saltarellus , lisa selkirk , dominique sportiche , donca steriade , margarita suner , esther torrego , bernard tranel , co vet , marie - therese vinet , amy weinberg , lydium white , karen zagona , raffaellum zanuttinus & maria - luisa zubizarreta . finally , we wish to thank carlo martin - vide for organize the concurrent workshop on mathematical linguistic ; robert berwick & walter j . savitch for serve on the wml program committee ; and philip baldus for give an outreach lecture .
