Subject: re : ter meulen 's review

ter meulen , alouse g . b . , ( 1997 ) represent time in natural language , the dynamic interpretation of tense and aspect , mit press , cambridge mass . , 160 page , isbn 0-262 - 70066 - 2 , $ 12 . 50 ( paperback ) . review by anne reboul , loria-cnrs , france . anne . reboul @ lorium . fr 0 . introduction ter meulen 's book be a good introduction to the work which she have be do during the past few year on both the representation of eventuality and temporal reason . the book combine her approach 's desire not to lose information previously give in discourse with semantic principle which be squarely base on situation semantic . this allow her to introduce dynamic aspect tree ( dats ) , which can loosely be describe as temporal inference pump . ter meulen point out that , though common sense reason play an important role in temporal reason , it be not her aim to deal with it . finally the present paperback edition of the book incorporate an appendix give some exercise on dat construction and a short account of the resemblance and difference between drt and dats . 1 . 0 book summary preface ter meulen aim to account for the linguistic and informational balance between static and dynamic information , propose abstract semantic principle relative to tense and aspect and use tool derive from situation semantic . 1 . introduction language describe the world as be compose of two main type of temporal object : event which introduce change and state which do not . this linguistic capacity be accompany by an inferential ability in interpretation of what be or be not the case when . ter meulen deal only with the simple past , the perfect , the progressive and some use of the present , that be with tense which indicate in which order event occur , through weak constraint on the temporal relation between event . the difference between the simple past and the perfect be aspectual , as be obvious when they be examine in the light of the difference between event and state : the simple past describe event in a context-dependent way while the perfect only give stative information . aspect can be see as impose control on the flow of information and here ter meulen introduce three main universal aspectual class , hole , filter and plug which be closely relate , respectively , to vendler 's classical ontological class of activity ( " john run for half an hour " ) , accomplishment ( " john build a house " ) and achievement ( " john win the race " ) . ter meulen introduce the notion of situate reason about time : accord to her , there be a temporal vantage point in a text from which reason about the text can proceed . this be the first ( descriptive ) factor . the second ( aspectual ) factor be the source of information , while the third factor be perspective information . new temporal information be process against a context ( the give ) which incorporate at least the lexicon and syntax of the language , situate and logical inference rule , other semantic constraint ( presupposition ) , the available information and the element of the situation of use . 2 . the aspectual verb the aspectual verb describe the internal structure of event and be , in english , " start " , " begin " , " commence " , " initiate " , " resume " ( for event beginning ) , " continue " , " keep " ( for event middle ) and " end " , " finish " , " terminate " , " halt " , " cease " , " complete " ( for event ending ) . aspectual verb describe the middle or the end of an event carry anaphoric presupposition ( assumption about the previous existence not of an event , but of this event ) . aspectual verb describe the onset of an event semantically have an indefinite and existential character . verb describe the middle of an event be quantificational verb and hole . verb describe the end of event may be filter or plug depend on whether they can be finish ( plug ) or end ( hole ) . there be pair of aspectual verb link by a semantic contrary relation , such as " start / finish " , " stop / resume " , " resume / finish " , " keep / end " , " continue / end " . in dat 's , event be complex object , constitute of individual , their relation and a positive or negative polarity . event can be classify in similarity class or type base on their part . a type consist in a relation , object and a positive or negative polarity , indicate whether the relation hold or do not hold between the object . type can also include parameter or indeterminate object and can be use for any constituent apart from polarity . a give situation support the type if it match with its constituent . for type include parameter ( parametric type ) , support depend on the existence in the situation of some object correspond to the parameter and satisfy both the relation and the polarity . aspectual verb can also be describe in term of their monotonicity : if inference , for a give aspectual verb , be valid from smaller part to larger part , the verb be monotone increase , while if inference be valid from larger part to smaller part , the verb be monotone decrease . ter meulen then propose the aspectual cube , that be a cube allow the representation of the relation between aspectual verb as well as of their monotonicity property . each vortex in the cube have two vertical arrow of which the first represent the dynamic plug ( upward arrow ) / static hole ( downward arrow ) while the second represent the increase ( upward arrow ) or decrease ( downward arrow ) monotonicity . the cube visualize the dynamic transition begin with + start ; and stop with " end " or " finish " . it bottom correspond to stative hole , while its top correspond to dynamic plug , allow four combination of arrow in english : dynamic plug + increase monotonicity , dynamic plug + decrease monotonicity , stative hole + increase monotonicity , stative hole + descrease monotonicity . external negation flip the leave arrow change the dynamicity , while internal negation flip the right arrow . finally , there be an arrow kinematic , whereby the combination of arrow give above give a dynamic or stative aspect , this be alway determine by the right arrow ( i . e . the value of the combination be alway the value of the right arrow ( upward = plug ; downward = hole ) . 3 . dynamic aspect tree ( dats ) dats be a way of graphically represent information about event in direct graph where node , label with descriptive information , can be either hole or plug . each dat have a unique source node ( a plug ) , which be the rightmost terminal node , correspond to the utterance event and determine the perspective . any information in the past tense have precede the source and be represent by node on a branch to the leave of it . present information include the source . thus left-to - right order represent the flow of time while downward arrow represent temporal inclusion . dats be use for temporal reason about the past ( though they do not allow modality and counterfactual ) . there be also in a dat a single root node , dominate all the other node , include the source , and represent the entire episode describe . there be also a current node , which be the last construct one and which can open ( hole ) or close ( plug ) , this property determine how the next information will be process . if the current node be a plug , the new information will be represent as a new node descend from one of the current node 's parent node , usually the lowest compatible parent node . simple past tense clause introduce new node , while state , quantificational relation , perfect clause with " have " and progressive clause be introduce as sticker on the current node , if it be a plug , or on the next node , if it be a hole . sticker be portable and can be transmit to new node when the dat grow . introduce a new node independent of the current one indicate a change in perspective . a path connect a set of label node to the root be a chronoscope and the current chronoscope be the one contain the current node . compatibility relation ( which be symmetric , reflexive and transitive ) be determine both lexically and through the entailment relation between type on the same chronoscope . the notion of chronoscope be one of the main device of temporal reason in dats , allow for persistence , i . e . the preservation of information . however , temporal reason depend on the current node , the search for a conclusion start at the current node . dats be structure semantic object rather than linguistic expression and , as such they follow semantic rule . they be interpret in event structure into which they be embed and which allow temporal reason if they obey semantic constraint . interpretability for a text depend on the possibility of construct a dat which can be embed in an event structure obey these constraint . an embed dat describe an episode if the event structure in which it be embed provide value for it . a text be true if the episode describe in the dat be part of the world . 4 . state , generic information and constraint stative information be alway represent as sticker on node in dats , but some state be more permanent than other , this difference be represent as portability condition in perspective shift . there be thus rule for downward portability condition of sticker and for portability condition for accommodation . portability condition differ for perfect state and for progressive state . generic stative information be also represent by sticker and can be import upward depend on whether the property be predicate under default to the member of a give category or on whether it be predicate of the category itself rather than of its member and on whether it appear in conditional or under temporal quantification . 5 . perspective a dat give a certain perspective on the episode it describe and the same episode may be describe in different dats , each give a different perspective on it . this means that dats on the same episode can lead to different conclusion . change of perspective depend on the rule use for the update : hole or sticker rule do not change the perspective , plug or filler rule do . in other word , change of chronoscope correspond to change of perspective and depend on the status of the current node . there be , however , more to perspective than just create a new chronoscope when update the dat : the other possibility go through perspective refinement . perspective refinement correspond to the unplug of a plug which turn it into a hole , allow the addition of new information under it . the notion of perspective be strongly dependent on the compatibility of information or , more generally , on coherence and it be one of the merit of dat to allow for a more precise content to the rather slippery notion of coherence , relie on the rule for dat construction and the notion of chronoscope . perspective refinement usually correspond to flashback and consist of three operation : unplug node in old chronoscope , reset the current node to an old one and make the exist node and the new node just add independent though they be dominate by the same ancestor . ter meulen propose a tentative definition of such a flashback process . she note that perspective allow perspective bind of np anaphora and propose a perspective constraint to deal with it . finally ter meulen outline the possibility of three-dimensional dats , the third dimension allow for the representation of independent structure of node , though communality of the root be preserve . such three dimensional dats would be call scenario though each part of such dats with a unique source would still describe an episode . part of scenario which incorporate different simultaneous episode be scene . 6 . a fragment of english in this chapter , ter meulen give a syntactic and semantic account of a fragment of english , as " a laboratory environment for the theory of interpretation " ( 93 ) , as well as a recapitulation of the rule for dat construction and update . 7 . epilogue dats allow for the simultaneous encode of three type of information : aspectual control of information through the open / close property of node , temporal part / whole relation between event , and descriptive information through the type label the node . dats be compatible with aristotelian realism as define by barwise and perry , that be , with the view that the structure of information depend on the natural world . a distinction should be make , accord to ter meulen between interpret an utterance to extract the information it contain and evaluate the truth-value of that information . appendix in this appendix which have be add in the paperback edition , ter meulen have provide exercise on dat construction as well as a comparison between drt and dats . i will only comment on that second part of the appendix . as ter meulen note , dats stem partly from drt . nevertheless and though dat logic be not develop enough to allow for a complete comparison , there be quite a few difference between them : dats account for inference from simple past to past perfect or progressive , for portability condition of stative information in chronoscope and for aspectual verb , which drt do not ; drt account for temporal adverbial and for temporal interpretation of subordinate clause , which dats do not ; dats substitute the notion of current chronoscope to the notion of temporal reference point use in drt . finally dats characterize valid logic inference as depend crucially from the current node , while drt characterize valid logic inference classically , as logical consequence . 1 . 1 . critical evaluation ter meulen 's book be highly stimulate , original and interest . it must be read by anyone interest in time , tense and aspect . all the criticism which can be level against it come from one reason : the fact that the book be much too short . this means that though it be clear enough , it be rather difficult to read . it be also quite frustrate in that , for instance , though ter meulen do explain how to construct dats ( in chapter 3 ) and give detail rule , there be not enough step by step example of dats in the book ( as for example , there be in kamp and reyle 1993 ) . in much the same way , one would have like to have a much more detail comparison with alternative account , such as drt , the parsonian account of event or , more generally , aktionsart . the appendix , which have be add in the paperback edition ( 1997 ) and which do not exist in the first hardback edition ( 1995 ) , be not really enough to satisfy both of these complaint . ter meulen 's book hint about a relation between reference to object and reference to time ( the indefiniteness of the argument nps of a give verb may influence the interpretation of the clause , and , notably , aspect ) . all of these hint be very interest and , again , a longer book may have give the author more scope to develop those intuition . thus one can only hope that this interest book will be follow by a bigger one , in which dat logic could be develop more fully , contrast with alternative approach and where ter meulen could describe more precisely her suggestion regard perspective and the interaction between the semantic aspect in dats and the commonsense reason whose necessity she acknowledge but which she do not deal with in her book . finally , ter meulen 's book be publish at the same time as pustejovsky 's work on the lexicon , thus she do n't make use of pustejovsky 's system . it would be nice to know if an intersection between these approach can be make . reference kamp , h . & reyle , u . ( 1993 ) : from discourse to logic , dordrecht , kluwer . parson , t . ( 1990 ) : event in the semantic of english , a study in subatomic semantics , cambridge mass . , mit press . pustejovsky , j . ( 1995 ) : the generative lexicon , cambridge mass . , mit press . reviewer : anne reboul , research fellow at the cnrs ( national center for scientific research ) france . phd . in linguistic , phd in philosophy , currently work in the center for computer research in nancy , in the team dedicate to man-machine dialogue . she have write quite a few papers both in french and in english , be the co-author of the dictionnaire encyclopedique de pragmatique ( pari , le seuil . english translation in preparation for basil blackwell , oxford ) and be the 1997 bronze medalist for linguistic at cnrs . anne reboul loria-cnrs bp 239 54506 vandoeuvre - le - nancy france < anne . reboul @ lorium . fr >
