Subject: disc : grammar in uk school

i be disturb to find some traditional fallacy in geoffrey sampson 's discussion of the teach of grammar in school . though i no longer have a copy of prof . cameron 's original post , i do recall the essential of it , and find that mr . sampson have pass over the valid point it be make in favour of a prescriptivist , " back to basics " defense of traditional grammatical education . prof . cameron be perfectly correct in ridicule the inflexible , rote and prescriptive approach to grammar which be conventionally inflict on student throughout the english speak world . the issue of be able to use standard english ( or perhap _ a _ standard english ) correctly be entirely separate from the reliance on traditional " rule " which be frequently unhelpful , and often grossly inaccurate . the rule regard finish sentence with preposition , as one glare example , be a total misunderstand of both the history of english , and an unhelpful preoccupation for effective communication . > strike me as akin to suggest that teacher of > french should forget about teach the past participle of " vivre " in > favour of get their pupil to develop consider opinion about > the theory of derrida . though mr . sampson have use an interest rhetorical image here , it be in fact a false analogy . teach student to get a feel for the function of grammar and language be a far cry from teach them gb theory or hpsg . an understand of how sentence , clause , verb tense , adverb , etc . actually function on a basic level is a very reasonable educational goal , and far more worthy then just create a bunch of " do n't " 's and " never " 's and call that grammatical education . > beyond that , though , teach orthography and grammar at school level > have a much broader educational value . one of the lesson we all have > to learn be that nothing big and worthwhile be ever achieve in this > life without careful attention to endless tedious and often arbitrary > detail . at the risk of make a gross national stereotype , i feel compel to quote george bernard shaw : " the british believe that they be moral when they be merely uncomfortable . " this notion that education ( or work , for that matter ) must be unpleasant to produce result be a puritanical relic . in my personal experience , the very successful people tend to be precisely the one who know how to delegate , slough off or avoid waste time with " tedious and arbitrary detail " . ( please read the precede paragraph with the tongue plant in the general vicinity of the cheek . ) in a spirit of greater seriousness though , i would like to second prof . cameron 's call to educator to abandon prescriptive , rule-base approach to grammar , and embrace a more general approach base on a comprehension of more fluid and meaningful principle . i believe that the result would be student with a better grasp of the form and function of language rather than a shallow and inflexible mastery of facile rule . - - - - marc hamann
