Subject: re : 8 . 792 , disc : grammar in uk school - - a response

i be fascinate by geoffrey sampson 's defense of traditional educational language standard , and cannot resist comment on some point . he say : it seem to me that teach correct usage , the > standard terminology for element of grammar and punctuation , and the > ability to remedy formal error in faulty prose be exactly the kind > of thing that need to be teach in this area at secondary-school > level . to say that school pupil should be teach to engage in > " explicit , systematic reflection on what it be that we be do when > we use language " strike me as akin to suggest that teacher of > french should forget about teach the past participle of " vivre " in > favour of get their pupil to develop consider opinion about > the theory of derrida . even assume this type of cognitive > achievement be worthwhile in principle , it be quite impractical for > the average secondary-school class to attain it . sett aside the possible implication of elitism in the phrase " the * average * secondary-school class " , i view the charge of " impracticality " with suspicion , since it be a typical way of dismiss any innovation . it means " it 's very nice but there 's no time for it . we have already identify the priority , and we ' re have trouble get them through in the time we have . " cf . we have no time or money to investigate the " so-cal " cause of crime , because there 's so much of it that we can hardly keep up with the demand for more prison - - that 's the top priority - no time for anything else , thanks anyway . nevertheless , in principle i be not put off , and read on to find out why the top priority be what they be . i be not disappoint , though the rationale offer seem predictable to me , and also arguable . > people need to learn to write their national language accurately > because much of modern life depend on complex write communication , > and prose that be full of unsystematic deviation from the convention > interfere with successful communication , as dirty window interfere > with successful vision - - the message get lose amid problem with the > medium . people need a terminology for talk about the bit and > piece of language , as a car mechanic need to know the name of the > part of a motor , in order to provide an apparatus for think out > what have go wrong and how to cure it when prose do n't " work " . this all sound reasonable . and i be indeed in favor of student know these thing . in fact , prescriptive grammatical terminology and analysis do set a foundation even for what linguist do when they " engage in explicit , systematic reflection on what it be that we be do when we use language " namely , linguist start with the traditional category , explore their motivation and then discuss where they seem to be inadequate and what would be more adequate , in view of whatever larger linguistic fact be bring to bear on whatever problem of traditional grammar . . . i realise , of course , that geoff be not argue for this - - and so i wonder if traditional grammatical analysis etc . be either necessary or sufficient for effective " complex communication " . probably nobody would defend the " sufficient " condition in view of much obscure , if not incomprehensible , ( though " grammatically " flawless ) standard write , but i also wonder about the necessary " condition " . that be , do you have to be able to analyse to imitate the standard way of write ? is the standard that different from a " natural " language ( first learn type ) ? ( at least with some good , also professional , creative writer i know , they be not actually aware of some of the key element of their style , e . g . , one who be very effective in use and even coin nominal compound , but do not show recognition of this as a characteristic of his style when i mention it to him . ) thus , i be not challenge the notion of a standard or necesarily the demand for its use in certain context , but how it be present , esp . be it this great logical thing it 's generally portray as , that 's gonna solve all those " communication " problem that have alarm english publisher since the time of caxton ? but even more , do it have to be * explicitly * teach ? ( maybe a lot of teacher screw up teach " grammar " , because that 's where a lot of student complain they get irremediably bore and just want to get the hell out of the classroom . who know , even linguistics may be more popular , if many student have n't earlier be turn off to " grammar " . ) > beyond that , though , teach orthography and grammar at school level > have a much broader educational value . one of the lesson we all have > to learn be that nothing big and worthwhile be ever achieve in this > life without careful attention to endless tedious and often arbitrary > detail . i can't see a better domain for learn this lesson than > the orthography and grammar of one 's national language : it contain > the tedious detail , but it relate to material which surround the > child in his everyday life . this be the discipline and " moral fibre " argument , which be the last ditch attempt at enforce authoritarianism . as a friend of mine , an english teacher observe , his supervisor be an ambitious man , and a stickler for discipline . night school student should not wear hat in class , say the supervisor . so my friend the teacher tell one recalcitrant student that once ( these be night school adults ) . the student take it off and put it right back on . my friend say . that 's it . i ' m here to teach english . he 's not bother anybody else . i ' m not go to get suck into some authority game . but school for child be full of such petty discipline thing that be insist upon along with learn " subject " . obediance be more important than understand . the argument be that the discipline that come from obedience will lead to understand in time , if there be any argument at all , cf . learn declension and conjugation before approach text . ( and often the teacher do n't even know why something be insist on . they just know that they have to be obey , or else the authoritarian structure collapse , and their supervisor will come down on them . ) this be what lot of kid resent about school . probably not the same one who actually like to cause disturbance ( or can't control themselve somehow ) . is anyone unfamiliar from their childhood with what i ' m refer to ? so what basically be this " discipline " argument . it seem to me the argument be : the student who have master standard english have demonstrate ability ( not necessarily inclination ) to follow relatively complex orders and routine , and therefore can be consider capable for position in hierarchy where follow fairly complex order be consider necessary ( or at least desirable ) . little wonder some actually call this behavioral skill " morality " . but can i question geoff 's rationale without question his view of " ( british ) civilization " ( that 's a quote from his message ) ? i do n't know . - - benjus
