Subject: disc : evolution analytic > synthetic

as far as i can tell , melanie misanchuk 's query > i once read that the natural evolution of a language be from > analytic to synthetic . i ' ve be unable to find that assertion > since , and be wonder if i make it up . have be answer very inadequately . since her summary be post on linguist , i feel that some correction be necessary . judge from some of the reply melanie receive , the view be still widespread that linguistic evolution can go in both direction , i . e . that there be no inherent directionality in language change . this be wrong . at the same time , we can't say globally that language tend to change either from synthetic to analytic ( as some 19th century linguist think ) or vice versa . what be go on be quite simple : we have to look at constructions , not at languages . we then see that there be a universal directionality of change : analytic construction alway turn into synthetic construction ( unless they die out ) , and synthetic construction be alway replace by newly create analytic construction . ) that be , synthetic construction never turn into analytic construction , and analytic construction be never replace by newly create synthetic construction . ( so both synthetic > analytic and analytic > synthetic be universal , but in different senses . ) when quite a few synthetic construction be simultaneously replace by analytic construction , then one can get the impression that the language as a whole change from the synthetic type to the analytic type - - this be what 19th century linguist such as august schlegel , wilhelm von humboldt , august schleicher , max mueller and other emphasize . ( the cycle mention by rob pensalfinus be first describe by georg von der gabelentz in 1891 . ) at the same time , 19th century linguist ( e . g . franz bopp and william d . whitney ) also recognize that the development from analytic to synthetic ( which they call agglutination , now call grammaticalization ) be possible and common , but they be confude because they tend to think in term of language rather than construction . it be true that 19th century linguist have some preconception about their own language ( actually , latin and greek ) be the best language , but this do not mean that all their insight be totally discredit . martin haspelmath , free university of berlin / university of bamberg
