Subject: shor

the revival of the shor literaly language . irina nevskaya , mainz . summary the article be devote to the present-day sociolinguistic situation in mountain shoriya ( russium , the south of western siberium , the kemerovo region ) . the indigenous population of mountain shoriya be the shors who speak one of the siberian turkic language . the shor language have survive in spite of unfavourable circumstance . until very recently , it be neither write nor teach at school for half a century . at present , the shors try to restore social function to the language . the turcological tradition at the novokuznetsk state pedagogical institute have facilitate ( and even instigate ) the revival of the shor literary language . the article touch upon the history of literary shor and of shor language research in novokuznetsk , and analyze recent development in shoriya : the revival of shor language school teach , and of write shor . special attention be pay to problem face shor turcologist who be provide the revival process with scientific back-up . the article will be fully publish in one of the next issue of the journal turkic language here we present some extract of it . general information the shors be one of the minor indigenous turkic people of siberium . in the former ussr there be slightly over 16 , 0 shors . 12 , 585 of them , accord to the census of 1989 , live in kuzbass ( the kemerovo region ) , in the south of western siberium [ itogus 1989 , 42 ] . . . the shors inhabit mountain shoriya , the northern part of the sayan - altay mountain region . the ethnonym be introduce by the academician v . v . radlov at the end of the nineteenth century . the ethnonym , which come to be use officially , be originally the name of one of the turkic family clan or tribe ( sook ) who speak rather similar turkic dialect . the turk of altay also use the terrn ' shor ' for the turkic - speak population of the kondoma ( shor lfondumj , mrassu ( shor pra ) and tom ( shor tom ) river basin . at that time , this population do not have a general native name . as the official and native name oftthi ethno , the ethnonym spread in the mid - 1 ^ 30 's , during the begin of the national cansolidation of the turkic sayan - altay ethnic group . the ethnic group form from various turkic and non - turkic source . the ethnonym ' aba ' , the name of one of tolax sook , be encounter in chinese source date from 603 [ pritsak 1959 , 630 ] . the shors be consider to be turkicize ob - ugrian : linguistic , ethnographic and anthropological research show thz presence of an ob - ugric substratum in the ethno : in the toponymy of shoriya there be a lot of ket name ( e . g . the river name end in * za / + sa ) , indicate that the region be inhabit earlier by the ket . many question of shor ethnic history have not yet be solve . as a separate nation with selfidentification and national sentiment , it form within the turkic - speak population of this region during the last three century . the shor ethnologist dr . valery kimeev delineate 3 period of the ethno history [ kimeev 1994 , 4 - 6 ] . 1 . the formation of territorial ethnic group of the shors within the administrative ethnic territory ( russian kuzneckij uezd ) , from the begin of the seventeenth until the begin of the twentieth century . 2 . national and cultural consolidation in the framework of the autonomous national district ( cor / lo-swo / skij nacional ' nyj / ajon ) , 1926 - 1939 . at that time , the process of national development be very intensive . the most important contribute factor be the development of the literary language , school instruction in shor and the spread of literacy among the shor population . 3 . from the early 1940 's until very recently , the shor nation in the condition of active spread of the dominant russian culture . within these year the shors lose their literary language and be at the brink of full assimilation . socio - linguistic situation in shordya in the late 1980 's the shor language have survive despite unfavourable circumstance . the fast industrial development of the area in the twentieth century almost destroy the traditional shor way of life and have a profound influence on the area . the mass inflow of mainly russian speak migrant initiate assimilation process which threaten not only the shor language but also the very existence of the shor nation . begin in the 1950 's , the follow new economic and social factor emerge : small farm be merge , and many shor village disappear ; people , in search of work , have to move to city ( where the process of assimilation move even faster ) ; the rural population be reduce , the urban population in mountainshoriya grow ; school in small shor village be close ; shor board school be open ( these be primary and secondary educational establishment in big village and industrial center where shor child live apart from their family during the academic year and be instruct in russian ) . as a result , by the end of the 1980 's , shor come to have a lower social status it be not a write language , nor a language of school education . furthermore , its transmission to younger generation have almost stop , and the number of speaker have dramatically diminish . the language competence of speaker be reduce , especially of urban shors ( only 3 % of urban shors could speak shor fluently in 1986 versus 20 . 1 % in 1976 ) , while their competence in russian increase . in 1989 only 59 . 4 % of the shors consider shor to be their mother tongue , versus 76 . 6 % in 1970 . the number of shors who consider russian to be their mother tongue increase from 24 . 4 % up to 39 . 1 % [ itogus , 1989 , 42 ] . we see that people prefer to give up their mother tongue . the history of the shor literary language be important for the analysis of the factor which lead to this situation . general information on the history of the shor litera / y language shor could be call one of the " oppress language " of the former ussr . within the twentieth century alone , the shor language lose its literary tradition twice . the first time be just after the october revolution in russium , when the church school found by the altay missionary be close . the altay missionary preach in the native language of siberium 's aborigine . they publish book in indigenous language of the siberian people , found primary , secondary school , and religious tertiary school where they train national priest and teacher for shor school . one of the first primary school in shoriya be open in the village of kuzedeevo by the wellknown missionary and linguist v . 1 . verbitsky who teach at this school . by the time of the october revolution there be school in all the larger village . in the northern part of shoriya , about 40 % of the population be literate . shor be the language of school teach , write communication , literature . the shor literature of the time be sparse ; there be only shor translation of religious literature , and original work . after 1917 , with the outbreak of the revolution and civil war , all school be close , and hence the literary tradition be interrupt . in 1927 the shor national district be form . though the district do not exist long ( it be annul in 1939 ) , this be an important period for the development of the shortliterary language . it be teach at school ; a considerable number of book in shor be publish ( more th , an 150 title ) and the language , folklore and ethnology of the shors be study intensively . however , the tragic event of 1937-45 have a devastate effect on the culture of the shors . in 1942 , the last issue of the shor language newspaper " kyzl sor " ( ' red shoriya ' ) be publish , and all the shor school close . frqm this time on , the shor language be no longer write or teach at school for half a century . the sphere of its function be minimal : it be only use at home for everyday topic . all other cultural need be meet by russian , which be the language of education , of literary work , of the mass media , as well as of administrative , political , and economic relation . dure this period , several generation of urban shors grow up with at best minimal competence in shor . at present , history give the shor language a chance ( probably the last one ) to become a literary language . the active growth of shor national sentiment and political activity , their interest in the national culture and language , and change in the country as a whole can contribute to this . the revival of literary shor begin with the publish of textbook of shor , the train of shor language teacher , and the teach of shor at school and in shor language circle . the revival of teach shor at school in 1988 , a chair of the shor language and literature be create at the novokuznetsk state pedagogical institute ( ngpi ) . the first head be prof . andrey chudoyakov . the same year a shor department be establish in the faculty of philology and teacher train in shor language and literature begin . a year later , teacher of different subject who be shors themselve begin to teach shor in a number of school . they be graduate of a 2 - year course of train leader for shor language circle . the course be organize in novokuznetsk by dr . alisa esipova . the shor alphabet book and textbook for the primary year be write by dr . nadezhda kurpeshko ( kemerovo ) and member of the department . in 1994 , the first graduate of the national department ( 5 people ) begin to work at school in the kemerovo region . at present , about 20 teacher of shor work at school in the tashtagol and mezhdurechensk district of mountain shoriya , both in city and village . some school which be close 10-30 year ago resume teach . some school be rebuild . turcology in novokuznetsk the revival process be facilitate ( or , perhap , even instigate ) by turcological tradition at the novokuznetsk state pedagogical institute . dure the 50 crucial year of shor language history , the collect , compile and describe of all still available material have not stop . the shor language research have be carry out mainly by university foreign-language teacher at the novokuznetsk state pedagogical institute . when in late eighty we witness the uprise of shor national sentiment and the desire to restore social function to the language , there have already be qualify people ( among them also shors ) who could cope with this task . initially , the most important task face such linguist be to provide the revival process with scientific back-up : to create a modern orthography for shor , to choose a standard dialect , and to work out literary norm . reference itogus vsesojuznoj perepisus naselenija 1989 goda . vypusk 4 . nacional ' nyj sostav . 1990 . kemerovo : kemerovskoe kniznoe izdatel 's tvo . patruseva , g . m . 1994 . sovremennye etniceskie processy u sorcev . in : kimeev , v . m . & lavrent ' eva , l . a . & tokmasev , j . k . & sogrina , n . a . & bobrov , v . v . & nevskaja , i . a . & tivjakov , s . d . ( ed . ) 1994 . sorskij sbornik . vypusk 1 . kemerovo : kem . gu . 216-222 . pritsak , o . 1959 . das schorische . in : deny , jean & scheel , helmuth & togan , zekus validus ( ed ) . philologia turcica fundamenta . 1 . wiesbaden : steiner . 598-640 . dr . irina a . nevskaya ( novokuznetsk , russium ) currently have a scholarship from the conference of the german academy of science . she be work at the research project entitle converb clause in shor under the guidance of prof . dr . lar johanson . she will stay at mainz university at the institute of oriental study until july 1997 . for those interest in siberian turkic language her address be : dr . irina nevskaya seminar fur orientkunde universitat mainz , d-55099 mainz tel . + 49-6131 - 393885 e - mail : turcolog @ mzdmza . zdv . uni-mainz . de fax : + 49-6131 - 394380
