Subject: re : 8 . 764 , disc : noam chomsky : a life of dissent

i read robert f . barsky 's reply to postal 's and pullum 's comment about feargul murphy 's review of his ( barsky 's ) book and find it odd , to say the least . about three quarter of barsky 's reply do ( do ? ) not deal with the postal - pullum comment about murphy 's review for the linguist but with a review by pullum for ' nature ' of barsky 's book . i can understand that barsky feel the need to defend himself against pullum ( who would n't ) , but most of what he say be simply irrelevant to the issue at hand . postal & pullum write a reply to murphy , not to barsky . but even grant that this be a welcome opportunity for barsky to reply to pullum 's ' nature ' review , i see no justification for the fact that this reply deal almost exclusively with chomsky 's non-linguistic activity , which be not at issue in p&p 's reply to murphy . p&p be concern with what they take to be inaccuracy be spread by murphy ( and barsky ) about one specific issue : the politics of the mit linguistics department at a certain point in history . p&p mention chomsky 's non-academic political activity only very briefly , and only insofar as they be relevant to chomsky the linguist : they concern murphy 's strangely irrelevant remark that " chomsky be at this time simply very busy with other issue like the vietnam war " . ( i can only understand this remark , which be quote by p&p as paraphrase barsky , as insinuate that one ought not criticize chomsky 's academic politics because from someone who have the courage to speak out against the vietnam war anything go ) . the follow comment by barsky summarize for me the tone and tenor of his entire reply : " pullum seem to want to tell all of us what to do and how to think . " this be not an argument , it 's low-level denigration . it remind me of presidential debate . to quote barsky : " this be extremely unnerve . " knud lambrecht department of french & italian university of texa , austin
