Subject: sum : particle movement

dear linguist lister , about a month ago i post a query regard literature on ' particle movement ' in english or , to be more precise , literature on factor contribute to the position of the particle in transitive phrasal-verb construction such as ( 1 ) a . john bring back the book . b . john bring the book back . in the begin , i 'd like to thank very much all of those who respond and share their knowledge with me . apart from some very valuable hint i even receive offer to send me unpublish papers or to share the up to now unpublish result of recent research concern the topic in question . additionally , some answer be suggestion concern methodological matter or exception from the rule generally cite . now that i have manage to mail my answer to all of them individually ( my sincere apology to those who have have to wait unexpectedly long for their answer ) i want to post the summary of all those who contribute to my research follow by their suggestion or reference ( in alphabetical order ) : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - aart , bas ( b . aart @ ucl . ak . uk ) : dear stefan grie , regard your query on linguist , you may want to have a look at a paper of mine in the journal of linguistic , 25 . 2 , 1989 , 277-290 : ` verb - preposition construction and small clause in english ' ( and reference cite there ) . this article also appear in modify form in my book _ small clause in english : the nonverbal type _ . new york and berlin : mouton de gruyter . 1992 . hope this be helpful . bas aart cameron , richard ( rcameron @ uic . edu ) for an article which investigate " the factor contribute to the position of the particle " , see : kroch , anthony and cathy small . 1978 . grammatical ideology and its effect on speech . in david sankoff ( ed . ) linguistic variation : model and method . new york : academic press . pp . 45-55 . good luck . richard cameron durham . linguistic @ durham . ac . uk ( durham linguistic ) you may like to look at : johnson , k . 1991 . object position . _ natural language and linguistic theory _ 9 : 577-636 . fischer , susan ( currently : fischer @ sal . tohoku . ac . jp ) i do my 1971 - 2 mit dissertation on the acquisition of verb-particle construction as well as double-object construction in english . i do not have a copy of my dissertation ( the acquisition of verb - particle and dative construction ) with me here on sabbatical , but the main point of the structure chapter be that unstress pronoun direct object be cliticize to the verb - - so you must say " i give it up " rather than " i give up it " . however , if the pronoun have inherent or contrastive stress , the particle can intervene between the verb and the object : " ok i give up that a long time ago " , " i give up him , he do n't give up me . " good luck with your work . susan fischer foster , joseph f . ( joseph . foster @ uc . edu ) mr . grie , re your query on linguist re bring np back and structure of that ilk , i believe chomsky actually use this as one of his example motivate transformation in syntactic structures . nelson franci also do in his structure of american english which be basically an immediate constituent analysis a la rulon well . my chief reason for return your signal however be to let you know if you do n't already ( as your signal suggest you may not ) that there be certainly a dialect of english in which the particle must always follow a pronoun direct object . thus your ( 2 ) b * * * john pick up him . be never grammatical in my english ( i speak natively ozark english but be fluent in standard southern american and pretty fair in midwestern . ) even if the him be contrastively stress , it can never follow the particle . on the other hand , your 1 a and b be both ok . joe foster fraser , bruce ( bfraser @ bu . edu ) if you get any answer to your query , i would appreciate learn of the article . good luck . bruce fraser hagstrom ( hagstrom @ scf . usc . edu ) try hawkin ' " performance theory of order and constituency " cambridge university press 1994 for a process approach to word order . cynthium hawkin , john ( hawkin @ almaak . usc . edu ) hi stefan : i see your question on the linguist list re particle position . i have quite a bite of discussion on the order of verb , particle and np in my 1994 book a performance theory of order and constituency , cup , pp . 180-182 , and also some textual datum . in the meantime i have collect a whole bunch more datum , and have examine the constituent structure of v-np - part sequence in greater detail , and have find order evidence for two quite distinct structure here : one i analyze as a predication structure in which the part be semantically a predication ( e . g . lift the child up = the child be up ) ; one in which it be not and which i analyze as a discontinuous verb-particle structure ( look the number up do not equal the number be up ) . the propose constituency difference predict different ordering in conjunction with the basic order principle of my book ( early immediate constituent ) . i have n't get this stuff write up yet , but i ' ll be happy to share it with you when i have . best wish , john hawkin kemmer , suzanne e . ( kemmer @ ruf . rice . edu ) i ' m happy to hear you ' re go to work on english particle . i do n't have any reference to give you , only a suggestion : the generative work on particle be not very empirical , and never actually look at the distribution of the verb adjacent v . the postnominal particle . the distribution be highly lexically govern . ( for example , i have many time hear ' look over it ' instead of ' look it over ' , although all the generative literature assume only ' look it over ' , because of the pronoun . the fact be , ' look over ' be coalesce into a single unit that override the pronoun-first preference . ) so , my suggestion be , get yourself a concordance program and actually look at large sample of english . it 's true , it will be write datum ( unless you have a speak corpus ) , and as such more conservative and somewhat less open to the innovation people actually make ; but some real generalization will emerge . you can search on the various particle ( throw out the prepositional use ) and get an idea of which verb like which particle . ( if you need suggestion on inexpensive concordance program , let me know ) good luck , suzanne mill , carl ( carl . mill @ uc . edu ) at the 21st forum of the linguistic association of canada and the unite state ( lacus ) , i present a paper entitle " ' obligatory particle movement ' in english , " which be available on pp . 195-204 of the papers from the 21st lacus forum , ed . by mava jo powell . i write the paper because i have come across several example in normal english conversation that violate your star example : ( 2 ) a . john pick him up . b . * john pick up him . because these be example that i overhear , some on national public radio , i know that your stipulation " ( 2b ) be star unless ' him ' be contrastively stress " do not hold : the pronoun around which the particle be suppose to have be " move " be not contrastively stress . within a matter of day , i overhear three sentence : he want to help out them . he go in the house and put down something . can you ring up this ? i add 21 more sentence , some that i make up and some that have be star in various linguistics publication , and conduct an acceptability judgment survey use a write questionnaire . statistically , the result indicate that speaker accept the sort of rule that underlie your star of ( 2b ) above , but they do n't alway obey the rule . there be more , but you can read the paper for that . good luck . carl mill nathan , geoff ( geoffn @ siu . edu ) dear stefan , a number of year ago we have a student work on this problem , and she write a thesis use an early version of cognitive grammar . she finish her thesis , and unfortunately drop out of linguistics - - i do n't even know where she be now . but i could send you a copy of her thesis if that would be of use to you . best , geoff nathan nolan , brian ( bnolan @ iol . ie ) you may find what you need in the work of talmy , list below . talmy explore the window of attention and the linguistic correlate which pertain to this phenonema . he explain how we can bring to attention , or focus , certain feature in a dialogue and how these can manifest themselve linguistically vium foreground and background , gap etc . , etc . talmy 's ( 1996a ) , or his ( 1985 ) work be probably a good place to start talmy , leonard . ( 1996a ) . window of attention in language in grammatical construction , their form and mean by shibatanus & thompson ( publisher ? ) talmy , leonard . ( 1996b ) . fictive motion in language and " ception " : the emanation type , in p . bloom et al ( ed . ) , language and space . mit press . cambridge ma . talmy , leonard . ( 1985 ) . lexicalisation pattern : semantic structure in lexical form in t . shopen ( ed ) , language typology & syntactic description iius : grammatical category and the lexicon . cambridge university press . cambridge ma . talmy , leonard . ( 1978 ) . figure and ground in complex sentence , in j . h . greenberg ( ed ) . universal of human language iv : syntax . stanford university press . stanford , californium . talmy , leonard . ( 1972 ) . semantic causative type in syntax and semantic no . 6 . academic press . new york . talmy , leonard . ( 1996 ) . semantic and syntax of motion in syntax and semantic no . 4 . academic press . new york . also , the follow book be also very , very useful as an intro to the area of cognitive linguistics and may also be of interest to you : ungerer , f . and schmid , h . , j . ( 1996 ) . an introduction to cognitive linguistic . learn about language sery . longman . have fun , brian nolan rohrbacher , bernhard ( bernhard @ zora . ling . nwu . edu ) ich nehme an , du bist mit den diversen artikeln von kyle johnson zu diesem thema vertraut . siehe auch mein papier " * english verb move never " in volume 1 der university of pennsylvanium work paper in linguistic . alle gute , bernhard rohrbacher svenonius , peter ( sven @ isl . uit . no ) i can give you a quick rundown of the major syntactic account of particle shift . i realize this may not really be what you ' re look for , but all of the follow reference do treat the alternation in word order , although not from a functional or cognitive perspective . richard kayne have a 1985 article in which he adopt a " small clause " configuration for the particle construction ( i . e . " the book back " would be a small clause , in your example ) and relate particle shift to heavy np shift ; the particle move to the right when it be phonologically " heavy " . i adopt the small clause configuration from kayne but criticize the heavy np shift approach to the word order variation in a 1992 article , and propose a technical syntactic solution for particle shift ( base on the particle " incorporate " into the verb ) . den dikken , in his 1992 dissertation ( later publish as den dikken 1995 ) agree with my rejection of kayne 's analysis but tender some accurate criticism of my approach , and offer a different syntatic analysis , which also adopt the small clause structure but which in which shift be characterize as np movement across the particle for case reason . in my 1994 dissertation , i accept den dikken 's criticism of my 1992 analysis but show some evidence that the base structure he assume be incorrect . i propose another syntactic account base on two alternative movement ; either the particle move or the np move . in later work i have develop this approach and extend it to the scandinavian language . i have one article publish in 1996 in work paper in scandinavian syntax and a longer one that have n't be publish anywhere ( yet ! ) . i also have a review of den dikken 's book publish in the journal language . two additional recent reference be johnson 's 1991 ( ? ) article in natural language and linguistic theory , in which the verb plus particle start out as a constituent , and the verb move from the particle ( as in most analysis of german and dutch ) , and collin & thrainsson 's 1996 linguistic inquiry article , in which the particle first move up to attach to the verb , as in my 1992 article , and then the verb move away , as in johnson . all of the above work deal to some extent with the basic pattern of shift , which be that pronoun precede the particle and modify particle ( and particle with complement ) follow the noun phrase - - with greater or lesser degree of success . for example , pronoun be often consider to have special property with respect to case , and this have be exploit in several of the above work . in my dissertation , i speculate somewhat inconclusively that the special position of pronoun may be due to their prosodic lightness , and i expand on that possibility in the wpss article , where i show that destress nps be best before the particle , while stress nps be better after the particle , e . g . ( 1 ) how with the girl get here ? a . i ' ll pick the girl up b . * i ' ll pick up the girls c . i ' ll pick up the girl ( 2 ) who will you pick up ? a . i ' ll pick up the girls b . * i ' ll pick the girl up c . i ' ll pick the girls up in each case , the ( a ) example be best , because the natural right-edge pitch increase coincide with an element that be not old information . the ( b ) example be bid because salient old information should not be stress . the ( c ) example be acceptable , because sentence stress do n't fall on the old information , but be less good than the ( a ) example , because the stress have be shift away from the right edge of the sentence . in the article i provide a technical formal account of this fact . the same kind of account may extend to the pronoun and modify particle , but some more work be need , since example with particle before pronoun or modify particle after np be worse than the ( c ) example above , even with stress shift to the leave . however , the fact that stress on a pronoun ( or coordination of pronoun , which also make them phonologically heavy ) allow it to follow the particle suggest a prosodic account . i realize this have be rather breezy , but it 's because i do n't know how much of it really be of interest to you . if you me to expand on something , just ask . if you want more complete reference , or if you would like me to send any of my own papers , i 'd be happy to oblige . best , peter svenonius - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - again , thanks very much to all of you stefan th . grie
