Subject: sum : reference on ' as if / though . . . '

a few week ago i send out a query to ask for reference about a possible difference between ' as if ' and ' as though ' construction in english instantiate by the follow . ( 1 ) tony write as { if / though } he { be / be / be } left-hand . ( 2 ) she look as { if / though } she { be / be } ill . i ' ve receive four reply . here i would like to thank those who take time to give me information , as list in the follow . izzy ( israel ) cohen ( req-telaviv ) < izzy @ telaviv . ndsoft . com > mark campana < campana @ hawaius . edu > david houghton < dh2 @ acsu . buffalo . edu > alessandra bertocchus < bertocchus @ ecn01 . economium . unibo . it > here be a summary . izzy cohen give a relevant part from the random house dict . the random house online dictionary 1992 contain : though idiom 4 . < as though > as if : it seem as though the place be desert . ironically , the same source also contain : as 9 . though : strange as it seem , it be so . so , not only do as if = as though , sometime as = though . re : be v . be ( v . be ) : this be a question of whether the subjunctive should be use . the same source advise : subjunctive ( suhb jungk ' tiv ) adj . 1 . of or designate a grammatical mood typically use for subjective , doubtful , hypothetical , or grammatically subordinate statement or question , as the mood of be in if this be treason . compare imperative ( def . 3 indicative ( def . 2 ) . n . 2 . the subjunctive mood . 3 . a verb form in the subjunctive mood . [ 1520-30 ; < ll subjunctivus = l subjunct ( us ) , ptp . of subjungere to harness , subjoin ( sub - sub - + jungere to join ) + - ivus - ive ] derive word - - sub-junc ' tive-ly , adv . usage . the subjunctive mood have largely disappear in english . it survive , though inconsistently , in sentence with conditional clause contrary to fact and in subordinate clause after verb like wish : if the house be nearer to the road , we would hear more traffic noise . i wish i be in florida . the subjunctive also occur in subordinate that clause after a main clause express recommendation , resolution , demand , etc . : we ask that each tenant take ( not take ) responsibility for keep the front door lock . it be important that only fresh spinach be ( not be ) use . the subjunctive occur too in some establish or idiomatic expression : so be it . heaven help us . god rest ye merry , gentleman . mark campana give his intuition : i do n't have any reference on your question per se , but my intuition tell me that ' as though ' can imply a feel of suspicion - i . e . that [ the subject ] be try to be something that s / he be not . this intuition be not as strong in the correspond ' as if ' construction . david houghton give his intuition as well : i do n't know of any papers you may read concern this topic , but , for what it 's worth , i can offer my intuition as a native speaker . it strike me as i contemplate the contrast that the sentence with ' as if ' be better with some past tense form , and best with the subjunctive form . those with ' as though ' be better with the indicative form . i cannot say that my semantic intuition on this topic be very firm , but it seem to me that there be a correspond contrast between counterfactuality with ' as if ' and mere hypotheticalness with ' as though ' . if any or all of these distinction be real , i suspect they be not very strictly observe in colloquial usage . alessandra bertocchus make a little research and write : i ' ve make a little research myself to see the difference ( if any ) between ' as if , as though ' my point of departure be latin ' quasus ' , which be ( apparent - ly ) indifferently translate with both . ' quasus ' refer to an unreal world in any case ( for the speaker ) , which can be real for the subject , in some case . so i wonder whether this may be the difference also between ' as if / as though ' . i have find only few word on this matter in j . haimann ( 1974 ) , ' foundation of language ' 11 , p . 353 : " in at least one construction , there be no difference , even aspectual , between the conjunction ' if ' and ' though ' : max spend money as ( if , though ) it be go out of style i have also ask some native speaker , but no one perceive any difference . the only one who feel that it be possible that they differ ( but he be not sure of it ) be i . sag . he write to me that ' as though ' seem to be more counterfactual than ' as if ' . so horn suspension would give : he speak as if he be in charge , and in fact he be ? he speak as though he be in charge , and in fact he be but , to say it with haimann , complete mystery surround the nature of this construction . so , if you get more certain judgement and if there be reference , please , let me know . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - thank again for the contribution and i ' ll let you know of further progress . ken sugayama kenseus sugayama dept of english kobe city univ . of foreign study department of linguistic university of manchester e-mail : xj9k-sgym @ j . asahi-net . or . jp e-mail : k . sugayama @ stud . man . ac . uk
