Subject: new service for linguist subscriber

dear subscriber : the linguist list have just institute a new service , which we ' re call " the notice board . " the notice board can be find at : http : / / linguistlist . org / ~ notice / it be intend to help linguist make professional contact and find practical information - - the kind of information that facilitate our professional activity but be not directly relate to linguistic research . for example , you may post a notice on the notice board if : - you ' re spend your sabbatical in another city and want to find a house to rend - you need crash space or a roommate for a linguistics conference . - you want information about live condition in a region where you ' ll be do fieldwork . this be the kind of information-gather that use to be one of the great advantage of email distribution list . and , have benefit from it ourselve in the past , we have often regret that the size of linguist 's subscriber list ( now over 9000 ) make it impossible to post such inquiry in linguist issue . we hope that this " linguist notice board " on the world wide web will partly take the place of such posting . we will , of course , continue to post query have to do with linguistic research and announcement of general interest ( job , fellowship , conference , etc . ) on linguist . so you should continue to send these to the list . the notice board be design for more personal request and announcement ( but not " lonely linguist seek attractive , adventurous informant . . . " the notice board win be quite that personal . . . . ) please let us know if you have suggestion for its improvement . helen , anthony , daniel linguist moderator reminders : 1 ) linguist dissertation abstract be now searchable . if you have n't yet enter your dissetation abstract , please do so at : http : / / linguistlist . org / dissop . html ( if you do n't have web access , send us an email message and we will be happy to enter your information for you . ) 2 ) linguist be in the process of create a searchable directory of linguist . if you have n't do so , please enter informaion about yourself at : http : / / linguistlist . org / persop . html thank !
