Subject: summer school in behavioral and cognitive neuroscience

the groningen graduate school for behavioral and cognitive neuroscience ( bcn ) announce its second summer school in behavioral and cognitive neuroscience 30 june - 11 july 1997 groningen , the netherland scope brain , behavior and cognition traditionally be study by various discipline , rang from linguistics and experimental psychology through behavioral biology , biophysic and biochemistry to the preclinical and clinical neuroscience . within the groningen graduate school for behavioral and cognitive neuroscience ( bcn ) , establish in 1991 at the university of groningen , researcher join effort to study these different area of brain research . the summer school bring together international expertise in this multidisciplinary field , with a focus on the interaction between the discipline . program the summer school program consist of 12 master class and 4 general lecture . they be teach each morn ( advance class ) and each afternoon ( introductory class ) in four parallel session , and provide an excellent opportunity for in-depth discussion . the general lecture will be hold in the afternoon , after the afternoon session . week 1 ( 30 june - 4 july ) parallel morn session ( advance course ) : - neural network as model for neuronal phenomena invite speaker : j . p . draye , mon , belgium w . gerstner , university of lausanne , switserland d . bullock , boston university , usa p . g . morasso , university of genova - neurobiology of cns damage invite speaker : a . arutjunyan , lab . perinatal biochemistry , st . petersburg , russium r . i . hogenesch , norway e . a . j . joosten , departent of neurology , university hospital utrecht , the netherland m . de ryck , janssen research foundation , beerse , begium r . a . i . de vo , laboratorium pathologie oost - nederland , enschede , the netherland - topic in constraint - base natural language process invite speaker : suresh manandhar , department of computer science , university of york , unite kingdom from the university of tuebingen , germany : dale gerdemann , thilo goetz , gerald penn , detmar meurer , guido minnen and shuly wintner parallel afternoon session ( introductory course ) : - clinical neuropsychology invite speaker : e . de haan , utrecht , the netherland p . w . halligan , oxford , unite kingdom p . de kort , tilburg , the netherland d . t . stuss , ontario , canada - color vision invite speaker : k . arikawa , cuy , yokohama , japan t . w . cronin , umbc , baltimore , usa m . kamerman , uva , amsterdam , the netherland d . g . stavenga , rug , groningen , the netherland j . walraven , tno , soesterberg , the netherland c . m . m . de weert , nici , nijmegen , the netherland - foundation of cognitive science invite speaker : b . von eckardt , university of nebraska , usa m . r . ter hark , groningen , the netherland e . i . stiekema , groningen , the netherland - multidisciplinary microdialysis invite speaker : dr . a . m . j . young , dr . m . h . joseph , institute of psychiatry , london , uk dr . t . obrenovitch , insititute of neurology , london , uk week 2 ( 7 - 11 july ) morn session ( advance course ) : - methodology for neuroimage invite speaker : c . aine , lo alamo , usa h . duifhui , department of biohysic , groningen , the netherland n . leender , paul scherrer institut , villigen , switzerland parallel afternoon session ( introductory course ) : - basic to developmental neurology invite speaker : j . - r . cazalet , cnrs , laboratoire de neurobiologie et mouvement , marseille , france m . van gelder - hasker , department of obstetry , hospital of the free university amsterdam , the netherland e . a . j . joosten , department of neurology , utrecht university , the netherland r . w . oppenheim , the bowman gray school of medicine , wake forest university , winston - salem , usa h . b . m . uyling , netherland institute for brain research , amsterdam , the netherland l . de vrie , department of paediatric , utrecht university hosital , the netherland - developmental dyslexium in multidisciplinary perspective invite speaker : h . lyytinen , niilo makus institute , department of psychology , university of jyvaskylum , finland r . nicolson , department of psychology , university of sheffield , unite kingdom f . j . koopman - van beinum , institute for phonetic science , university of amsterdam , the netherland - flexible syntax invite speaker : ad neeleman , department of linguistic , university of utrecht , the netherland special hands-on course , each day both in the morn and afternoon : - cognitive model with act - r invite speaker : john r . anderson , department of psychology , carnegie mellon university , usa christian lebiere , department of psychology , carnegie mellon university , usa fee * graduate and undergraduate student dfl 200 , - * bcn staff and postdoc dfl 300 , - * non - bcn staff and postdoc dfl 400 , - * industrial participant dfl 1 . 0 , - registration * as soon as possible . ask for the program booklet with regsitration form or use the electronic registration form at our web - site inquiry further information regard the summer school or bcn can be obtain by contact : bcn office nijenborgh 4 9747 ag groningen the netherland tel : + 31-50 - 363 . 47 . 34 fax : + 31-50 - 363 . 47 . 40 e-mail : bureau @ bcn . rug . nl see for more detail our web - site : http : / / www . bcn . rug . nl / bcn / event / index . html
