Subject: disc : grammar in uk school

forward message - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - i have recently receive , by a rather roundabout route , just a few of the contribution to this discussion . i do n't , therefore , know everything that have be say . i teach advance level english language ( as well as a separate course in english literature ) at a sixth form college - i . e . to student age 16 + . they come to us from 80 + different school , so have a wide range of previous educational experience . far from arrive have be teach to avoid split infinitive and end sentence with preposition , most arrive have never be teach what infinitive and preposition be . they lack the ` reasonably precise vocabulary for analysis ' refer to by larry rosenwald in his contribution of 5 june . i can teach them the terminology from scratch , but find that it do not ` bed down ' as it would have do if they have be familiar with basic grammatical concept from a much earlier age . a few day ago , i spend a whole lesson teach my student to distinguish between active and passive verb ( something which i myself could have do easily at the age of 12 , thanks to the ` old-fashion ' grammar teach which i receive ) because i want them to try an old exam question where the knowledge would have help them to see which of two text would have be harder for young child to read . i end up nurse them through the . exercise , do much of the work for them . in the next lesson , i give them another old exam question with extract from ` animal farm ' to analyse in the light of orwell 's own suggestion ( amongst other ) that one should prefer the active to the passive . many of the student take so long to decide which verb be active and which passive that they have no time to write an analysis . a recur problem on the course be that student struggle with higher-order analysis because they lack lower-order skill . teacher in the past at least have the grace to teach child how to recognise infinitive and preposition : they describe before they prescribe or proscribe . now , however , most teacher seem so anxious to avoid prescription and proscription that they avoid even description . like larry rosenwald , i think that the prescriptivist / descriptivist dichotomy have be take too far . jennifer chew - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - end of forward message - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
