Subject: summary on anglicization of name

hi - i post a query a while ago about how non - english name get anglicize . what i get in response be quite interest , though most of it be anecdotal , as the responder themselve note . most of the research cite be not in sociolinguistic but in speech technology . i still think this would be an interest topic to work on . in any case , i ' m include the response i get , with thanks to all and apology for the typographical irregularity - best , larry rosenwald , wellesley college 1 ) > from margaret lueb < malueb @ umich . edu > i see your message on the linguist list and want to share a story with you ( probably not scholarly enough for your summary , though ) . my last name be german and be spell " lueb " . people alway assume it be pronounce " lube " which be pretty close to the expect german pronunciation ( though that may not have be how my great-grandparent say it ; see below ) . instead , irritatingly enough , we say " lebb " . the story i ' ve be tell ( which may be partly apocryphal ) be that when my grandfather ( the first of 12 sibling to make it off the farm that their parent settle on in the 1880 's ) arrive at the university of nebraska in 1910 , he go to a professor in the german department and ask " what be the american pronunciation of my name ? " ( because up till then his family have just pronounce it the old way - - they speak german at home and live among lot of other german ) . the professor , for some reason , say " lebb " so that 's what we get stick with . then a few year later another brother make it to the university , and * he * go to a * different * professor in the german department and ask the same question . the answer he get be " leeb " so that 's how his descendant pronounce the name . other cousin seem to have just use their own common sense , because there be some out there who pronounce it " lube " . however we have an old letter from germany address to my great-grandfather , and it refer to him as " h . lib " , ( a misspell perhap inspire by the actual pronunciation ) so the original pronunciation may have be closer to " leeb " . it still do n't explain " lebb " , but oh well . i know this be n't what you ask for - - it 's not phonetic factor or even normal sociolinguistic one , but rather the dread influence of university professor ! 2 ) > from lexo @ lsus . sel . sony . com ( lex olorenshaw ) hi , the anglicization topic interest me , too , but more from a speech technology point of view . for example , what way can we anticipate the anglicize pronunciation of name in order to produce better synthesize speech , or to automatically recognize speech better ? some research have be do in this area for text - to - speech synthesizer . but i have n't look into it too much . there be a couple of reference to " name pronunciation " on this web site that may serve as a start point - http : / / www . bellcore . com / orator / oref . html since i ' ve be wonder about this , i also do a quick search for " name pronunciation " in linguistic abstract online ( currently on a free trial basis ! ) , and come up with the follow item - - - - - - - - - - - title : variant grapheme-phoneme correspondence in unfamiliar polysyllabic word author : robert l . trammell journal : language and speech vol : 33 ( 4 ) , 1990 , 293-323 subdiscipline : phonology abstract : ten college student and ten phds read aloud 30 unfamiliar english word , two to five syllable in length , of greek , latin , and germanic origin . the average number of different subject pronunciation per word be five ( range one to ten ) . each response be compare to the rule-predict , dictionary-prescribe , and most frequent pronunciation for that word . the subject agree more with each other than with the dictionary , and with the latter more than with the rule . however , the rule predict half of the prescribe pronunciation , which be better than the average number of individual subject ` s response agree with the dictionary . the most frequent response to each word demonstrate considerably more agreement with both the dictionary and the rule than do the average number of response for the subject individually . the etymological source of the test word have no effect . while the phds as a group do significantly better than the student on most measure , the difference be small . in view of previous research , the frequent vowel lax in open third and fourth syllable from the end be unexpect . several model of read be examine in the light of these result . - - - - - - - - - title : novel - word pronunciation : a cross-language study author : k . p . h sullivan & r . i . damper journal : speech communication vol : 13 ( 3 - 4 ) , 1993 , 441-452 subdiscipline : computational linguistic abstract : in the case of a ' novel word ' absent from a text-to - speech system ` s pronounce dictionary , traditional system invoke context-dependent letter-to - phoneme rule to produce a pronunciation . a proposal in the psychological literature , however , be that human reader pronounce novel word not by use explicit rule , but by analogy with letter-to - phoneme pattern for words they already know . in this paper , a synthesis-by - analogy system be present which be , accordingly , also a model of novel-word pronunciation by human . it employ analogy in both orthographic and phonological domain and be apply here to the pronunciation of novel word in british ( receive pronunciation ) english and german . in implement the system , certain detail question be confront which analogy theory be at present inadequately develop to answer . thus , a major part of this work concern the impact of implementational choice on performance , where this be define as the ability of the system to produce pronunciation in line with those give by human . the size and content of the lexical database on which any analogy system must be base be also consider . the better perform implementation produce useful result for both british english and german . however , best result for each of the two language be obtain from rather different implementation . author of abstract : author - - - - - - - - - - - 3 )
