Subject: 1998 aaal graduate student travel grant

1998 aaal graduate student travel grant purpose : to help support travel ( and some expense ) of a graduate student member of aaal to the 1998 annual meet . eligibility : applicant must be current member of aaal ( at time of application ) who be in a university master 's or ph . d . program in apply linguistics or relate field . amount : one award of $ 500 . 0 ( us ) will be make for the 1998 conference . selection criterium : ( a ) present scholarship and future promise ( b ) demonstrate need ( c ) involvement in apply linguistics and commitment to the field application procedure : 1 . send four copy of a letter of introduction in which you state : ( a ) institution and program of study ( b ) current contribution to the field of apply linguistics ( c ) career plan after completion of degree program ( d ) current financial situation , include your university 's contribution to conference travel ( e ) how conference attendance will benefit you and other ( f ) a biographical statement of no longer than 50 word , suitable for publication ( g ) contact information ( address , telephone , fax , and e-mail ) * 2 . send a seal letter of recommendation from a professor in your graduate program who be familiar with your work . the letter should state your professor 's estimation of : ( a ) your academic work and promise in the field of apply linguistics ( b ) personal attribute relevant to a career in apply linguistics ( c ) your level of need for financial assistance as provide for by this grant . * * each of the category list must be address since evaluation be key to individual category ( not include 1 ( a ) , ( f ) , ( g ) ) . deadline for receipt of application : december 1 , 1997 send all material to : 1998 aaal graduate student travel grant aaal business office 7630 west 145th st , suite 202 apple valley , mn 55124 any question about this grant may be address to the co - chair of the award committee : helena halmarus , dept . of english , sbe houston state university huntsville , texa 77341 e-mail : eng _ shh @ shsu . edu tel : 409-294 - 1990
