Subject: phd dissertation

soas dissertation in linguistic the follow dissertation be now available from soas ( the school of oriental and african study , university of london ) . abstract be include further below . syntax level of representation and argument structure in turkish . aslus goksel , 1993 focus and copular construction in hausa melanie green , 1997 movement and optionality in syntax anna pettiward , 1997 wh - movement , license and the locality of feature - check andrew simpson , 1995 a study of chinese reflexive xian fu yu , 1996 phonology condition on nuclear expression in phonology margaret cobb , 1997 the role of the element i in khalkha mongolian phonology margaret ann denwood the phonological basis of speech recognition geoffrey william , 1998 on pitch accent phenomena in standard japanese yuko yoshida , 1995 price include world surface postage : us $ 10 . 0 per volume , or ukstlg6 . 0 price include world air postage : us $ 15 . 0 per volume please make cheque or money order payable to : soas order should be send to : soas dissertation in linguistic , dept . of linguistic , soas , university of london , russell sq , london wc1h oxg england syntax level of representation and argument structure in turkish . aslus goksel , 1993 this be a study of the argument structure of complex predicate in turkish . the thesis argue for a mono-stratal grammar where configurational hierarchy and linear precedence be characterise separately . the first chapter introduce the issue relate to the representation of complex predicate and argue against a particular multi-stratal approach , verb - incorporation . the second chapter lay the foundation of characterise syntax and logic separately . the third chapter introduce label deductive system , the framework use in the remainder of the thesis . part ii be an analysis of morphological causative , passive and reflexive in turkish . it be propose that the causative affix in turkish have declarative content and behave like a predicate . a unitary account be provide for passivisation and reflexivization whereby both process be characterise in term of logical dependency . the sixth chapter be on the combination of causative , passive and reflexive . the final chapter discuss the status of the projection principle , theta theory , case theory , the mirror principle ) in a mono-stratal grammar . one of the main issue that be discuss be case-mark . it be propose that case give instruction for structure build in the combinatorial process . the propose property of case be test in causative construction and verify in passive , reflexive and their various combination . focus and copular construction in hausa melanie green , 1997 this thesis examine the syntax of focus construction in hausa within a principle and parameter / minimalist framework ( chomsky 1995 ) . a unify analysis be present to account for the property of focus - front construction in hausa , and also the property of ( apparently unrelate ) copular construction which be also show to have focus property . it be argue that the ` copula ' find in both focus - front and copular construction in hausa be not a verbal or inflectional element as argue by mcconvell ( 1973 ) and tuller ( 1986a ) respectively , but instead the spellout of a functional category f ( ocus ) in the sense of brody ( 1990 ) . the thesis present an introduction to the main syntactic characteristic of hausa , as well as a general introduction to the phenomenon of focus , include typological and comparative discussion to show the various cross-linguistic syntactic manifestation of focus . the fp analysis be also consider from a cross-linguistic perspective to see how it may account for focus and copular construction in a range of language relate to hausa , and it be show that although some language present challenge case for an fp analysis , there be considerable support for an approach of this nature . movement and optionality in syntax anna pettiward , 1997 can the operation move , construe as a copy operation ( chomsky 1993 , 1995 ) , be assume to apply in principle to any element ( as be the operation move - alpha in the gb framework ) ? and if move be constrain by economy condition , rather than apply or not at will , how can one characterize phenomenon appear to involve optional movement ? these be the two question which this thesis attempt to answer ( part i and ii respectively ) . part i propose that all copy in a chain - as oppose to some ( cf . chomsky 1995 ) - be active in the computational system . this assumption be argue for at length on both theoretical and empirical grounds . part ii develop a multiple optimal derivation ( cf . chomsky 1991 ) theory of syntactic optionality . a detail analysis be provide of optionality ( plus associate non-optionality ) effect from a number of language include french ( participle agreement ) , english and swedish ( optional partial associate movement with non - case / agreement-check expletive there and det ' it ' ) , and icelandic , german and dutch ( optional overt object shift ) . wh - movement , license and the locality of feature - check andrew simpson , 1995 investigate the syntax of wh-construction across a wide variety of language , this thesis re-examine the assumption that feature-check relation may only be effect within the strict locality of spec - head / head-adjoin configuration . a range of evidence from apparently optional wh-movement language such as hindus and iraqus arabic be argue to provide a strong empirical challenge to the strict locality hypothesis and indicate instead that feature-check relation may in fact be non - spec - head-local and effect without movement to the relevant license head . integrate such result with the pattern of wh-question in english , japanese and romanian - type language , the basic account develop be show to allow for a model in which dynamic syntax terminate at spell - out and also permit an analysis of partial movement question which avoid the severe problem such structure pose for standard minimalist approach . include also a final chapter on n - word license and the possible parasitic relation of scramble to feature-check , the thesis provide a critical overview of minimalism , an introduction to the wide variety of wh-construction - type present in natural language and in depth discussion of the opacity effect create by tense for various license relation . a study of chinese reflexive xian fu yu , 1996 this thesis be an in-depth investigation of the distribution and interpretation of the reflexive pronoun zijus , ziji-benshen and ta-zijus and reflexive-mark verb ( zi-verb ) in mandarin chinese . it argue that all type of reflexive pronoun can be either locally-bound or long-distance bind under certain circumstance . make reference to aspect of lexical , pragmatic and discourse structure , as well as draw on work in traditional chinese syntax and datum from historical and literary source , the thesis provide an explanation for the local and long-distance bind effect in term of different internal structure hypothesize for reflexive element . local - bind be a function of be assign an anaphoric theta role by a verb and lf adjunction to vp , wherea long-distance logophoric interpretation result when the internal structure of a reflexive incorporate a pro element . phonology condition on nuclear expression in phonology margaret cobb , 1997 this thesis be a principle examination of the distribution of ` tense / lax ' and ` high / low ' vowel in harmony system . i exploit the interaction of the parameter setting of three universal mechanism in the framework of government phonology . first i present the type of language datum the thesis account for and evaluate other approach in the literature to ` height ' / ' atr ' harmony . then i present the theoretical tool use in my analysis : license constraint ( parameter on element distribution ) , head license ( a condition on the distribution of head expression in harmony system ) , and the complexity condition ( a condition on phonological government ) . license constraint and head - license combine to provide a four-way typology of ` atr ' - type harmony . this be illustrate with datum from zulu , pulaar , turkana and akan . the basic mechanism be then also suggest to be subject to the complexity condition . i examine the harmony system of language which have this parameter switch ` on ' , manifest ` height ' / ' atr ' harmony effect : natal portugese , lena bable , yoruba and ogorus . finally i explore the implication the thesis have for the treatment of other harmony language which have be discuss in the literature e . g . chukchee , chichewa , pasiego and kera . the role of the element i in khalkha mongolian phonology margaret ann denwood this thesis , which be write within the framework of government phonology , revolve around phenomenon relate to the element i in khalkha mongolian . the all-pervasive influence and the structural requirement of i explain the relationship between palatal and palatalise consonant and umlaut as well as vowel harmony . relationship between syllabic constituent and evidence that these do not branch lay a fopundation for the proposal that mongolian , like chinese , have a basic four position template . the number and nature of consonant involve in sequence suggest that inter-onset government take place between onset belong to stem and suffix template . the distribution and behaviour of palatal and palatalise consonant , show that a special relationship exist between a nucleus dominate ( i ) and the precede onset , have implication for the representation of mongolian consonant . vowel harmony be analyse as head-license , the revise gp analysis of atr - harmony . license constraint generate nuclear expression , whilst additional constraint on a nucleus dominate a doubly-link i element explain umlaut and relate phenomenon , also support the head-license analysis against an i - harmony analysis . the phonological basis of speech recognition geoffrey william , 1998 this thesis explore an alternative approach to speech recognition base on the theory of government phonology ( gp ) . the main aim be to test a fundamental claim of the theory , that phonology be central to human speech recognition , by means of implementation and theoretical argumentation . a further claim of the thesis be that the application of gp to automatic speech recognition ( asr ) can provide insight into the nature of phonology . analysis of the central problem of speech recognition lead to the conclusion that decode by the linear segmental model central to previous phonologically motivate work , cannot succeed since it constitute neither an accurate nor computationally feasible model of speech process . we propose an alternative approach base on a combination of a phonological parser and the gp element as recognition target . we first explore the map between element and the speech signal and show that there be some support for the direct map hypothesis between gp element and the signal and that they therefore can form plausible recognition target . we then motivate the use of a gp parser in asr , claim that constituent structure as understand in gp can be recover fairly directly from the signal and allow for reconstruction of speech segment which be corrupt by noise or other effect . an implementation of both the parser and the element detector , base on neural network , be describe in some detail . the final chapter propose functional explanation for the nature of phonological license , and for certain distributional anomaly in a number of language , as well as address the computability of phonological derivation in gp in comparison to finite-state model . we show that the limit derivational machinery of gp ensure the tractability of phonological interpretation without sacrifice explanatory power . on pitch accent phenomena in standard japanese yuko yoshida , 1995 this thesis aim to demonstrate the merit of a theoretical approach to accent assignment in standard japanese . furthermore , it attempt to show that the formal treatment of pitch accent assignment be identical to that of stress assignment in language such as english . the propose analysis be base on a model of government-license , and reject the idea of an ' inter-syllabic foot ' construction in favour of the phonological notion of 'd omain ' and ' inter-nuclear license ' . another goal of this work be to expand the definition of a license domain - - from its minimal form , a binary license domain within an onset or nucleus ( rhyme ) constituent , as propose in kaye , lowenstamm & vergnaud ( klv ) ( 1990 ) , to its maximal form , a phrase . at all level of phonological representation ( include the skeletal level - - projection zero ) the government / license relation be maximally binary ( klv 1990 ) , and it be around this binarity of inter-nuclear license that accent assignment in standard japanese be construct . among the issue address be ( i ) an explanatory account of accent assignment in so-cal compound , and ( ius ) a new approach to the assignment of pitch within sentence . these issue elucidate how high-pitch assignment reflect the syntactic structure of the compound or sentence in question .
