Subject: linguistic association of great britain

linguistics association of great britain spring meet 1998 : lancaster university the 1998 spring meet will be hold from tuesday 14 to thursday 16 april at lancaster university . the local organiser be melanie sharratt and julium glass ( m . sharratt @ lancaster . ac . uk and j . a . glass @ lancaster . ac . uk ) . enquiry about the meet should be address to : melanie sharratt , lagb 1998 , linguistic department , lancaster university , lancaster la1 4yt . accommodation : en suite and standard room available . standard room have wash basin . room be in john creed - cartmel and lonsdale building , a short walk from the george fox build where the talk will be give . room will be allocate strictly on a " first-come first-serve " basis . registration : begin at 12 noon on tue . 14th april at lonsdale porter lodge . bar : will be open at lunchtime and evening ( until 23 . 0 ) every day . food : please indicate vegetarian / other dietary requirement on book form . childcare : if you require childcare , please contact the local organiser for further detail . travel : lancaster be easily accessible by train ( train from london can be catch at euston station ) . by car , the university be easily accessible from junction 33 of the m6 when travel from the north or the south . car park voucher will be available free of charge on request . further travel detail will be send out with book receipt event : the linguistic association 1998 lecture on tuesday afternoon will be deliver by professor frederick newmeyer of the university of washington , and be entitle ' formal linguistic and functional explanation : bridge the gap ' . professor newmeyer will also be participate in a workshop entitle ' formalism , functionalism and typology ' on tuesday afternoon and even . the workshop be organise by bill croft ( university of manchester ) ; other contributor be anna siewierska ( university of lancaster ) and simon kirby ( university of edinburgh ) . there will be a language tutorial on quechua , give by pieter muysken ( university of amsterdam ) . there will be a wine party on tuesday even , sponsor by the dept of linguistic . booking : should be send to the local organiser , address above , to arrive by friday 27 march . cheque should be make payable to " lancaster university " . guest : member may invite any number of guest to meeting of the association , upon payment of a \ 1635 guest invitation fee . member wish to invite guest should photocopy the book form . abstract : be available to member who be unable to attend the meet . please order use the book form below . annual general meet : this be to be hold on the afternoon of wednesday 15 april . item for the agenda should be send to the honorary secretary . nomination for speaker : nomination be request for future guest speaker ; all suggestion should be send to the honorary secretary . change of address : member be remind to notify the membership secretary ( address below ) of change of address . committee member : president : prof . richard hudson , university college london ( dick @ ling . ucl . ac . uk ) honorary secretary : dr . david adger , university of york ( da4 @ tower . york . ac . uk ) membership secretary : dr . kerstus borjar , university of manchester ( k . e . borjar @ manchester . ac . uk ) meeting secretary : dr . marjolein groefsema , university of hertfordshire ( m . groefsema @ hert . ac . uk ) treasurer : dr . paul rowlett , university of salford ( p . a . rowlett @ mod-lang . salford . ac . uk ) assistant secretary : dr . april mcmahon , university of cambridge ( amm11 @ herm . cam . ac . uk ) internet home page : http : / / clwww . essex . ac . uk / lagb . electronic network : the lagb electronic network be use for disseminate lagb information and for consult member quickly . to subscribe send the message " add lagb " to : listserv @ postman . essex . ac . uk . future meeting : 10-12 september 1998 university of luton . 8-10 april 1999 university of manchester . autumn 1999 ( provisional ) university of york . spring 2000 ( provisional ) university college london . autumn 2000 ( provisional ) university of wale bangor . other date : gene , language and people . 1 - day workshop on the interface between genetics , linguistics and archaeology , to be hold at selwyn college , cambridge , saturday 5 september 1998 . sponsor by the lagb and the genetical society . speaker include don ringe , roger lass , merritt ruhlen , svante paabo , antonio torronus , rob foley . contact april mcmahon at selwyn college , cambridge , cb3 9dq ; phone 659 335830 ; e-mail amm11 @ herm . cam . ac . uk . international conference : negation : syntax , semantics and pragmatic friday 30 october - sunday 1 november 1998 , university of salford . invite speaker : liliane haegeman , william ladusaw , jean - yve pollock conference organiser : paul rowlett abstract submission : max . 300 word by 30 april 1998 to wendy pickle , negation conference administrator , european study research institute , university of salford , salford m5 4wt . e - mail : w . pickle @ esrus . salford . ac . uk 5th conference on diachronic generative syntax , may 30 - june 1 1998 . contact : susan pintzuk , george tsoula , anthony warner , the organise committee , digs 5 , department of language and linguistic science , university of york , york yo1 5dd . uk . tel : + 44 1904 432661 / 432664 / 432667 . fax : + 44 1904 432673 . email : dig @ york . ac . uk . www : http : / / www . york . ac . uk / ~ lang13 the meeting secretary would very much like to receive offer of future venue , particularly from institution which the lagb have not previously visit or from place with newly establish linguistics program .
