Subject: new book : pidgin & creole

the structure and status of pidgins and creoles including selected papers from the society for pidgin and creole linguistics arthur k . spear & donald winford ( ed . ) due 1997 ix , 436 pp . creole language library , 19 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 174 x price : us $ 99 . rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 5241 6 price : hfl . 175 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com destine to become a landmark work , this book be devote principally to a reassessment of the content , category , boundary , and basic assumption of pidgin and creole study . it include revise and elaborate papers from meeting of the society for pidgin and creole linguistic in addition to commission papers from lead scholar in the field . as a group , the papers undertake this reassessment through a reevaluation of pidgin / creole terminology and contact language typology ( section one ) ; a requestion of process and evolution in pidginization , creolization , and other language contact phenomenon ( section two ) ; a reinterpretation of the source and genesis of grammatical aspect of saramaccan and atlantic creole in general ( section three ) ; a reconsideration of the status of language defy receive definition of pidgin and creole ( section four ) ; and analysis of aspect of grammar that shed light on the issue of what a possible creole grammar be ( section five ) . content : intro : on the structure and status of pidgin and creole : donald winford . section one : 1 . jaargon , pidgin , creole and koine : what be they ? : salikoko s . mufwene ; 2 . a typology of contact language : sarah g . thomason . section two : 3 . directionality in pidginization and creolization : philip baker ; 4 . mixe , level , and pidgin / creole development : jeff siegel ; 5 . matrix language recognition and morpheme sort as possible structural strategy in pidgin / creole formation : carol myer - scotton ; 6 . the creolization of pidgin morphophonology : william j . samarin . section three : 7 . saramaccan creole origin : portuguese - derive lexical correspondence and the relexification hypothesis : michael aceto ; 8 . lost in transmission : a case for the independent emergence of the copula in atlantic creole : john h . mcwhorter . section four : 9 . creole - like feature in the verb system of an afro - brazilian variety of portuguese : alan n . baxter ; 10 . the verb phrase in afrikaans : evidence of creolization ? : christa de kleine ; 11 . shaba swahilus : partial creolization due to second language learn and substrate pressure : vincent a . de rooij ; 12 . the status of isicarntho , an ngunus - base urban variety of soweto : g . tucker child . section five : 13 . new light on eskimo pidgin : hein van der voort ; 14 . reduplication in ndyuka : mary l . huttar and george l . huttar ; 15 . tense - aspect-mood in principense : philippe maurer . the genesis of a language the formation and development of korlai portuguese clancy j clement 1996 xviius , 282 pp . creole language library , 16 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 171 5 price : $ 79 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 5238 6 price : hfl . 140 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com korlaus portuguese ( kp ) , a portuguese - base creole only recently discover by linguist , originate around 1520 on the west coast of indium . initially isolate from its hindu and muslim neighbor by social and religious barrier , the small korlaus community lose virtually all portuguese contact as well after 1740 . this volume be the first-ever comprehensive treatment of the formation , linguistic component , and rapidly change situation of this exotic creole . the product of ten year of research , korlaus creole portuguese provide an excite , in-depth diachronic look at a language that be now show the strain of intense cultural pressure from the surround marathus - speak population . frame in thomason and kaufman 's 1988 model of contact-induce language change , the author 's analysis be enrich by numerous comparison with sister creole , apart from medieval portuguese and marathus . this book contrastively examine the follow area : phonemic inventory , phonological process , stress assignment , syllable structure , paradigm restructure , paradigm use , lexicon , word formation , semantic borrow , loan translation , grammatical relation mark , pre - and postnominal modification , negation , subject and object deletion , embed , and word order . contact languages a wider perspective sarah g thomason ( ed . ) 1996 xus , 487 pp . creole language library , 17 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 172 3 price : $ 165 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 5239 4 price : hfl . 275 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com this book contribute to a more balance view of the most dramatic result of language contact by present linguistic and historical sketch of lesser-known contact language . the twelve case study offer eloquent testimony against the still common view that all contact language be pidgin and creole with maximally simple and essentially identical grammar . they show that some contact language be neither pidgin nor creole , and that even pidgin and creole can display considerable structural diversity and structural complexity ; they also show that two-language contact situation can give rise to pidgin , especially when access to a target language be withhold by its speaker . the chapter be arrange accord to language type : three focus on pidgin ( hirus motu , by tom dutton ; pidgin delaware , by ive goddard ; and ndyuka - trio pidgin , by george l . huttar and frank j . velantie ) , two on creole ( kituba , by salikoko s . mufwene , and sango , by helma pasch ) , one on a set of pidgin and creole ( arabic - base contact language , by jonathan owen ) , one on the question of early pidginization and / or creolization in swahilus ( by derek nurse ) , and five on bilingual mix language ( michif , by peter bakker and robert a . papen ; medium lengua and callahuaya , both by pieter muysken ; and mednyj aleut and ma ' a , both by sarah thomason ) . the author ' collective goal be to help offset the traditional emphasis , within contact-language study , on pidgin and creole that arise as an immediate result of contact with european , start in the age of exploration . the accumulation of case study on a wide diversity of language be need to create a body of knowledge substantial enough to support robust generalization about the nature and development of all type of contact language . creole and dialect continua standard acquisition processes in belize and china ( prc ) genevieve escure 1997 x , 307 pp . creole language library , 18 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 173 1 price : $ 89 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 5240 8 price : hfl . 150 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com although there be a substantial amount of linguistic research on standard language acquisition , little attention have be give to the mechanism underlie second dialect acquisition . using a combination of function-base grammar and sociolinguistic methodology to analyze topic mark strategy , the unguide acquisition of a standard by speaker of nonstandard variety be examine in two distinct linguistic and geographical situation : in a caribbean creole situation ( belize ) , with special attention to the acquisition of acrolect by native speaker of basilect , and in a noncreole situation ( prc ) , document the acquisition of standard chinese ( putonghua ) by speaker of nonstandard variety represent in cultural revolution literature , wuhan chinese , and suzhou wu story-tel style . in both case psychosocial factor , linguistic bias toward nonnative rendering of the standard variety , the social status of their speaker , and relate political and educational consequence play an important role in the development of second dialect . the broad-range analysis of a single feature of oral discourse lead to the formulation of cross-linguistic generalization in acquisition study and result in an evaluation of the putative uniqueness of creole language . relate issue address include the effect of linguistic bias on the development and use of language variety by marginalize group ; the interaction of three major language component - semantics , syntax , and pragmatic - in spontaneous communication ; and the development of method to identify discourse unit . the ultimate goal underlie the comparison of specific discourse variable in belizean and chinese standard acquisition be to evaluate the relative merit of substratal , superstratal , and universal explanation in language development . for further information please e-mail bernadette keck : service @ benjamin . com
