Subject: genre in digital document , hicss 32

note : the deadline for submission of abstract have be extend to april 15 , 1998 call for paper for the minitrack " genre in digital documents " part of the digital document track of the thirty - second annual hawaus ' i international conference on system science ( hicss ) mauus , hi - january 5 - 8 , 1999 we invite papers for a minitrack on " genre in digital document " as part of the digital document track at the hawaius international conference on system science ( hicss ) . it be become increasingly clear that the successful use of digital media require the emergence of new or transform genre of digital communication . by genre we mean not just particular technology or mode of communication or presentation ( e . g . , hypertext , email , the web , and so on ) , but complex communicative form anchor in specific institution and practice - - the digital analogue , that be , of print form like the newspaper , the annual report , the how-to manual , the scholarly journal . this include not just genre replicate from print form , but new and emergent genre that may not have exist in print form . topic the minitrack will address include , but be not restrict to , * issue in the transformation of print genre to digital form * genr in digital search and classification * genre theory and its application to digital document * investigation of genre in use * analyse of particular document genre * design in support of genre * evolution of genre of digital document we invite two kind of submission : " position papers " that take on the broad question of the role of genre in our understand of digital document , and case study , design , or report that shed light on particular aspect of digital genre . please submit your paper to : michael shepherd geoffrey nunberg faculty of computer science xerox palo alto research center dalhousie university 3333 coyote hill road p . o . box 1000 palo alto , ca 94304 halifax , novum scotium nunberg @ parc . xerox . com canada b3j 2x4 fax : 415-812 - 4777 shepherd @ c . dal . ca fax : 902-492 - 1517 deadline : april 15 , 1998 : 300 - word abstract submit to track chair or minitrack chair for guidance and indication of appropriate content . june 15 , 1998 : full papers submit to the appropriate minitrack chair aug . 31 , 1998 : notification of accept papers mail to author . oct . 1 , 1998 : accept manuscript , camera-ready , send to minitrack chair ; author ( s ) must register by this time . nov . 15 , 1998 : all other registration must be receive . registration receive after this deadline may not be accept due to space limitation . hicss-32 consist of eight track : collaboration system and technology track digital document track emerge technology track health cbe track internet and the digital economy modele technology and intelligent system organizational system and technology track software technology track for more information about these track and a list of minitrack each consist of , please check the hicss web page for full list of the minitrack : http : / / www . cba . hawaius . edu / hicss or contact the track administrator , eileen denni , at edenni @ uga . edu
