Subject: frontier of combine system

preliminary call for papers second international workshop frocos ' 98 frontier of combine system october 2 - 4 , 1998 , amsterdam in various area of logic , computation , language process , and artificial intelligence there be an obvious need for use specialize formalism and inference mechanism for special task . in order to be usable in practice , these specialize system must be combine with each other , and they must be integrate into general purpose system . recently , the development of general technique for the combination and integration of special system have be initiate in many area . after frocos ' 96 , ` frontier of combine system ' 98 ' ( frocos ' 98 ) be the second workshop intend to offer a common forum for these research activity . it also aim to offer the possibbility of present result on particular instance of combination and integration , and on their practical use . topics - - - - - suggest , but not exclusive topic of interest for the workshop be : * combination of constraint solve technique and combination of decision procedure * integration of equational and other theory into deductive system * integration of datum structure into clp formalism and deduction process * combination of logic and of term rewrite system * hybrid system in computational linguistics , knowledge representation , natural language process , and human computer interaction * logical model of multi-agent system . programme commitee - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - franz baader , david basin , jacque calmet , dov gabbay ( co-chair ) , natasha kurtonina , aart middeldorp , istvan nemetus , maarten de rijke ( co-chair ) , christophe ringeissen , klaus schulz , amilcar sernada , michael wooldridge invited speakers - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - name of invite speaker will be release shortly . paper submissions - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - author be invite to submit a detail abstract of a full paper of at most 10 page to the second programme co-chair , either by e-mail ( prefer ) or regular mail . result must be unpublish , and not submit for publication elsewhere . the cover page should include title , author , and the coordinate of the correspond author . follow this it should be indicate which of the thematic area best describe the content of the paper . to be consider , submission must be receive no later than may 15 , 1998 . all submission will be thoroughly evaluate . on the basis of the referee report , papers will be select for presentation at the workshop and for the proceedings . author will be notify by july 15 , 1998 . we intend to publish the proceedings as a volume of the kluwer series on ` ` apply logic ' ' . addresses for submissions - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - electronic submission should be send to frocos98 @ win . uva . nl , use ` submission ' as the subject line . paper submission should be send to maarten de rijke attn : frocos ' 98 illc , university of amsterdam plantage muidergracht 24 1018 tv amsterdam the netherland important dates - - - - - - - - - - - - - - submission deadline : may 15 , 1998 notification : july 15 , 1998 workshop : october 2 - - 4 , 1998 local arrangements - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - carlo arece , christof monz , maarten de rijke , marco de vrie further information - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - email inquiry about frocos ' 98 should be direct to frocos98 @ win . uva . nl . information about frocos ' 98 can be obtain on the world wide web at http : / / www . win . uva . nl / ~ mdr / frocos98 . sponsors - - - - - - - frocos ' 98 be sponsor by the computational logic project at illc , university of amsterdam .
