Subject: new book in computational linguistics

centering theory in discourse edite by marilyn walker , at and t lab research , aravind k . joshus , university of pennsylvanium , and ellen prince , university of pennsylvanium this edit collection of previously unpublish papers focus on center theory , an account of local discourse structure . develop in the context of computational linguistics and cognitive science , center theory have attract the attention of an international interdisciplinary audience . as the author focus on naturally occur datum , they join the general trend toward empiricism in research on computational model of discourse , provide a significant contribution to a fast-move field . march 1998 464 pp . 0-19 - 823687 - 5 $ 105 . 0 oxford university press computer-assisted language learning : context and conceptualization michael levy , university of queensland so far , the development of computer - assist language learn ( call ) have be fragment . in these page , michael levy set call in its proper historical and interdisciplinary context , provide a comprehensive overview of the topic . draw on publish work as well as an international survey among call practitioner in eighteen country , he look at the relationship between call 's theory and application , its conceptual and practical role as tutor and tool . levy also discuss call 's implication for computer program . most book on call focus on specific project , and do so mainly from a theoretical point of view , but this unique text consider call as a whole , analyze the utility of the computer in language learn and teach . a detail review of the current literature be match with an in-depth examination of the tutor-tool framework . an ideal introduction to the procedure and performance of call as a multi-facet reflection of today 's ever-evolve technology , levy 's study will appeal to student , researcher , and teacher of apply linguistic . may 1997 320 pp . ; 17 b / w figure , 17 table 0-19 - 823631 - x paper $ 26 . 0 0-19 - 823632 - 8 cloth $ 65 . 0 oxford university press for more information about linguistic title from oxford university press : e-mail : linguistics @ oup-usa . org or visit the oxford university press usa web site : http : / / www . oup-usa . org oxford university press usa
