Subject: final cfp / fsmnlp ' 98 workshop

final call for papers fsmnlp ' 98 international workshop on finite state methods in natural language processing june 29 - july 1 , 1998 bilkent university , ankara , turkey sponsor by eacl - european chapter of the association for computational linguistic , tubitak - turkish scientific and technological research council ( * ) nato science for stability program tu-language project ( * ) to be confirm scope : original papers in the theory and application of finite state technique in all aspect of natural language process include , but not limit to : speech , phonology , morphology , tag , parse , information retrieval , and discourse , be seek . * * paper accept to the workshop will also be consider for a future special issue of the computational linguistic journal . * * - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - programme and organizing committee * laurus karttunen ( xerox research centre europe , france , co - chair ) * kemal oflazer ( bilkent university , turkey , co - chair ) * kenneth r . beesley ( xerox research centre europe , france ) * eric brill ( john hopkin university , md , usa ) * eva ejerh ( umea university , sweden ) * jerry hobb ( sri international , ca , usa ) * ronald m . kaplan ( xerox palo alto research center , ca , usa ) * martin kay ( xerox palo alto research center , ca , usa ) * george kiraz ( bell laboratory , nj , usa ) * andra kornaus ( bbn , ma , usa ) * kimmo koskenniemus ( university of helsinkus , finland ) * tomasz kowaltowskus ( university of campina , brazil ) * claudio leonardo lucchesus ( university of campina , brazil ) * mehryar mohrus ( att lab research , nj , usa ) * mark - jan nederhof ( university of groningen , the netherland ) * richard sproat ( bell laboratory , nj , usa ) * emmanuel roche ( teragram corp . , ma , usa ) * yve schabe ( teragram corp . , ma , usa ) * gertran van noord ( university of groningen , the netherland ) * atro voutilainen ( university of helsinkus , finland ) important dates jan . 16 , 1998 submissions due mar . 16 , 1998 author notify apr . 17 , 1998 camera ready copy due june 29 - july 1 workshop submissions electronic submission be encourage . please limit full paper submission to 12 , and extend abstract to 8 , single column , single space page . please submit postscript file by e-mail to fsmnlp98 @ c . bilkent . edu . tr with the subject line contain the first few word of the paper title . we ask that you send postscript file a few day in advance so that if there be any print problem , you may have time to submit a hard copy version . if you prefer hard copy submission , please send 4 copy of your manuscript fsmnlp ' 98 workshop department of computer eng . bilkent university bilkent , ankara , tr-06533 , turkey in either case , please send a separate e-mail message to fsmnlp98 @ c . bilkent . edu . tr contain the title , abstract , keyword for the paper and the relevant contact information , with a subject line similar to above . other activities the workshop will be hold just after the 7th turkish symposium on artificial intelligence that will also be hold at bilkent university on june 24-26 1998 . if there be sufficient interest , sightsee trip to the museum of anatolian civilization in ankara , to the cappadocium region know worldwide for its lunar landscape , fairy chimney , underground city , and mystical valley will be organize during the weekend between the symposium and the workshop . accommodations bilkent university campus have a 4 * hotel on the premise . in addition , a number of free lodge facility in the university dormitory will be provide on site for conference participant . numerous hotel in downtown ankara be also available . further information information about the workshop will be available at http : / / www . nlp . c . bilkent . edu . tr / fsmnlp98 / and will be update regularly .
