Subject: new book in general linguistics

different games , different rules : why american and japanese misunderstand each other haru yamada , university of westminster , uk with a foreword by deborah tannen japan and the unite state be in closer contact politically and economically than ever before , yet in many way our nation be as far from mutual understand as ever . misconception and miscommunication between east and west continue to plague this important relationship , frustrate the best effort of both culture to work together . stereotype abound : american see japanese as evasive and inscrutable , while japanese see american as pushy and selfish . what cause these persistent misunderst anding , and what can be do to avoid them ? fluent in both language and at home in both culture , haru yamada bring an insider perspective and a linguist train to this difficult question , illuminate the many reason why american and japanese misunderstand one another . social organization , she explain , shape the way we talk . because american and japanese culture value different kind of social relationship , they play different language game with different set of rule . in america , for instance , aesop 's fable about the grasshopper and the ant end with the ant scorn the foolhardy grasshopper . in japan , however , the story have a very different end : the ant invite the grasshopper in to share their winter meal , as they appreciate how his sing spur them on during their summer labor . in the difference between these two ending , argue yamada , lie an important lesson : american , because of their unique political history , value independence and individuality , while japanese value mutual dependency and interconnectedness . the language of both culture be design to display and reinforce these value so that word , phrase and expression in one language can have completely different connotation in another , lead to all manner of misunderstand . yamada provide numerous example . in japan , for instance , silence be value and halt speech be consider more honest and thoughtful than fluid speech , while in america forthright , polish speech be value . likewise , the japanese use word order to express emphasis , while american use vocal stress : a listener unaware of this difference may easily misunderstand the import of a sentence . in a lucid and insightful discussion , yamada outline the basic difference between japanese and american english and analyze a number of real-life business and social interaction in which these difference lead to miscommunication . by understand how and why each culture speak in the way that it do , yamada show , we can learn to avoid frustrate and damage failure of communication . different game , different rule be essential read for anyone who travels to or communicate regularly with japan , whether they be scientist , scholar , tourist , or business executive . but as deborah tannen note in her foreword to the book , even those who will never travel to japan , do business with a japanese company , or talk to a person from that part of the world , will find the insight of this book illuminate and helpful , because the greatest benefit that come of understand another culture be a better and deeper understand of one 's own . april 1997 192 pp . 0-19 - 509488 - 3 $ 24 . 0 oxford university press an introduction to the languages of the world anatole v . lyovin , university of hawaius at manoa " the author succeed in cover a broad range of important and interest information , and i be not aware of any other work that could serve as an all-round textbook for a course on the language of the world . " - - bernard comrie , university of southern californium , author of the world 's major language " . . . clearly exhibit the author 's very considerable erudition in several language area . " - - joseph grime , cornell university the only textbook of its kind , an introduction to the language of the world be design to introduce begin linguistics student , who now typically start their study with little background in language , to the variety of the language of the world . it be ideal for use in course where student have master the basic principle of linguistics but lack background in the broad range of language phenomenon find in the world 's language , such as vowel harmony and ergative construction . it offer student an opportunity to explore , at various level , structure of very different , highly interest language without necessarily possess a speak or read knowledge of these language . lyovin explain the classification of language , discuss not only genetic classification but typological and sociolinguistic classification as well . he follow this with an explication of write system . a chapter be devote to each of the world 's continent , with in-depth analysis of representative language of europe , asium , africa , oceanium , and america , and a separate chapter cover pidgin and creole . helpful feature include an appendix of nineteen map , student exercise , and suggestion for further read . march 1997 512 pp . ; 18 linecut , 19 map 0-19 - 508116 - 1 paper $ 35 . 0 oxford university press linguistic change in french rebecca posner , oxford university rebecca posner explore the history of the french language in all its manifestation . within the framework of modern linguistic theory , she concentrate on how french acquire its distinctive identity and how different variety of french relate to each other . this book richly illustrate the more technical aspect of linguistic change , and set evidence of social history against the way the language have change over time . december 1997 536 pp . ; 31 table 0-19 - 824036 - 8 $ 120 . 0 oxford university press a practical dictionary of german usage k . b . beaton , university of sydney one of the most difficult task confront the english speaker learn german be that of find exactly the right german word to translate an english word in a particular context . many common english word have several german equivalent . thus it be all too easy to find yourself say the equivalent of have you extinguish the trash ? instead of have you take out the trash ? bilingual dictionary list equivalent , but give little or no information about their use . the article in this practical dictionary be much longer than those to be find in a bilingual dictionary , and the number of word treat be fewer , with a concentration on those which cause particular difficulty for speaker of english . january 1997 944 pp . 0-19 - 824002 - 3 $ 153 . 0 oxford university press language teacher education john robert , university of read ( an arnold publication ) this book be an introduction to the train and development of language teacher . the author provide an overview of the theory of how trainee learn to teach , support by case study of various train program and discussion of the fundamental issue involve . 1998 ( paper 1997 ) 352 pp . 0-340 - 64625 - x paper $ 19 . 95 0-340 - 64626 - 8 cloth $ 70 . 0 oxford university press a student ' s dictionary of language and linguistics r . l . trask , university of sussex ( an arnold publication ) " it coverage of the terminology of linguistics as a mature academic discipline be thorough and informative . a field that , although it deal with a phenomenon all of us enagage in daily have develop a vocabulary as abstract as the vocabulary use to describe fine wine or beautiful music , need good dictionary . it have another in trask 's student 's dictionary . " - - rettig on reference the terminology use in linguistics can be confuse for those encounter the subject for the first time . this dictionary provide accessible and authoritative explanation of the term and concept currently in use in all the major area of language and linguistics , ( pronunciation , word structure , sentence structure , mean ) as well as in the study of the social , anthropological , psychological and neurological aspect of language . 1997 256 pp . 0-340 - 65266 - 7 paper $ 16 . 95 0-340 - 65267 - 5 cloth $ 60 . 0 oxford university press the concise oxford dictionary of linguistics p . h . matthew , cambridge university ( oxford paperback reference ) the concise oxford dictionary of linguistic be the most authoritative and up-to - date dictionary of linguistics available . written by distinguish and highly respect scholar peter matthew , this handy reference contain over 3 , 0 concise and informative entry on everything from phonetics to formal semantics . include world-wide coverage of language and language family , the concise provide grammatical term in english as well as grammatical category in other language . matthew also offer extensive coverage of the theory of language , language history , and important idea and figure in linguistics . a directory of symbol be include for quick and easy reference . with entry rang from epiglottal and morpheme to austronesian and navajo , the concise oxford dictionary of linguistic be the ideal reference for anyone with an interest in language and its study . january 1998 432 pp . 0-19 - 280008 - 6 paper $ 13 . 95 oxford university press lexicography and physicke : the record of sixteenth - century english medical terminology r . w . mcconchie , university of helsinkus ( oxford study in lexicography and lexicology ) medical practitioner of the sixteenth century have their own body of special term , just like the doctor of this century . mcconchie here examine medical terminology use in a selection of thirteen medical work publish between 1530 and 1612 , and compare it with the treatment of these word in the oed and other dictionary of today . hbe study reveal error , omission , and bias that raise important question for lexicograp hical tool in general . december 1997 464 pp . 0-19 - 823630 - 1 $ 100 . 0 oxford university press introduction to indo-european linguistics oswald j . l . szemere9nyus , university of freiburg this translation of the german edition first publish in 1970 , introduce the standard text on the comparative-historical method to an english - speakus ng audience . after survey the general principle of diachronic-comparatus ve linguistics , the book use these principle to analyze the phonological and morphological structure of the indo - european language group . each section of the book have a detail bibliography , so reader can progress from the general overview to a more in-depth examination of particular topic . april 1997 390 pp . 0-19 - 824015 - 5 $ 98 . 0 oxford university press inside language vivian j . cook ( an arnold publication ) what make human language unique ? how do language begin ? this book be a wide-range and stimulate introduction to language which student and general reader alike will read for enjoyment as well as instruction . it explore the most intrigue question about the nature of human language , draw on basic insight that have be develop by linguistics this century . 1997 304 pp . 0-340 - 60761 - 0 paper $ 22 . 95 0-340 - 69 ' 0 - 7 cloth $ 70 . 0 oxford university press john palsgrave as renaissance linguist : a pioneer in vernacular language description gabriele stein ( oxford study in lexicography and lexicology ) when henry viii charge john palsgrave with teach his sister french , there be no dictionary or grammar of either french or english . in lesclarcissement de la langue francoyse , a vast work of over 1000 page , this brilliant priest and linguist , with a dramatist 's eye for contempora ry life and an ear for colloquial idiom , provide the first bilingual dictionary and contrastive grammar of the two language . stein present a detail study of his achievement . october 1997 528 pp . 0-19 - 823505 - 4 $ 145 . 0 oxford university press principles and parameters : an introduction to syntactic theory peter w . culicover , ohio state university ( oxford textbook in linguistic ) this authoritative new survey show reader how specific methodological assumption underlie the core analysis on which syntactic theory be base . the author , an internationally respect figure in the field , give extensive treatment of government and bind ( gb ) theory , and summarize the major proposal and result of case theory , theta theory , x ' theory , bind theory , the theory of a - and a ' movement , locality condition , and the theory of logical form ( lf ) . he also provide an up-to - date introduction to a number of more recent proposal , include chomsky 's minminalist program , larsonian shell , and kayne 's antisymmetry theory . the most coherent and organize account of syntactic theory currently available , this volume be further enhance by carefully select and extensive set of exercise , annotate suggestion for further read at the end of each chapter , and a comprehensive glossary of technical term . february 1997 464 pp . 0-19 - 870014 - 8 paper $ 28 . 95 oxford university press for more information about linguistic title from oxford university press : e-mail : linguistics @ oup-usa . org or visit the oxford university press usa web site : http : / / www . oup-usa . org oxford university press usa
