Subject: new book in syntax & morphology ( 3 title )

negation and clausal structure : a comparative study of romance language raffaellum zanuttinus , georgetown university ( oxford study in comparative syntax ) " zanuttinus be absolutely at the cut edge of research both in romance language and in theoretical syntax . . . . a significant contribution to the field . " - - donna jo napolus , swarthmore college every human language have some syntactic means of distinguish a negative from a non-negative sentence ; in other word , every speaker 's syntactic competence provide a means to express sentential negation . this ability , however , may be express in different way , as show by the fact that individual language employ different syntactic strategy for the expression of the same semantic function of negate a sentence . zanuttinus 's goal here be to characterize the range of such variation by compare the different syntactic means for express sentential negation exhibit by the member of one language family - - the romance language - - and by reduce the difference we witness to a constrain set of choice available to the particular grammar of these language . this sort of analysis be a first step toward the ultimate goal of determine and understand what limit there be on the syntactic option that universal grammar impose on the expression of sentential negation . september 1997 216 pp . ; 18 chart 0-19 - 508055 - 6 paper $ 39 . 95 oxford university press clause structure and word order in hebrew and arabic : an essay in comparative semitic syntax ur shlonsky , university of geneva ( oxford study in comparative syntax ) shlonsky use chomsky 's government and bind approach to examine clausal architecture and verb movement in hebrew and several variety of arabic . he establish a syntactic analysis of hebrew and then extend that analysis to certain aspect of arabic clausal syntax . through this comparative lens of hebrew , shlonsky hope to resolve a number of problem in arabic syntax . hbe result generate some novel and important conclusion concern the pattern of negation , verb movement , the nature of participle , and the gamut of position available to clausal subject in both language . june 1997 304 pp . 0-19 - 510867 - 1 paper $ 45 . 0 0-19 - 510866 - 3 cloth $ 75 . 0 oxford university press tense and aspect : from semantic to morphosyntax alessandra giorgus , university of bergamo , italy , and fabio pianesus , institute for technology and scientific research ( irst ) , trento , italy ( oxford study in comparative syntax ) this book examine the interaction between the morphosyntax and the semantic interpretation of tense and aspect in the germanic and romance language . these language diverge not only in their variety of tense and aspectual form , but also in the distribution and interpretation of give form . adopt noam chomsky 's minimalist framework , alessandra giorgus and fabio pianesus attempt to provide theoretical explanation for the observe pattern of form and mean which link the morphosyntactic property of language in both universal and language-particular constraint on interpretation . december 1997 336 pp . 0-19 - 509193 - 0 paper $ 35 . 0 0-19 - 509192 - 2 cloth $ 85 . 0 oxford university press for more information about linguistic title from oxford university press : e-mail : linguistics @ oup-usa . org or visit the oxford university press usa web site : http : / / www . oup-usa . org oxford university press usa
