Subject: new book in semantics , pragmatics , & philosophy of languages ( 4 title )

aspect and predication : the semantic of argument structure gillian catriona ramchand , oxford university this book investigate the systematic correspondence between syntactic structure and semantic interpretation in the domain of predicate-argument relationship . take scottish gaelic as its empirical base , the book provide a detail work out of a semantic system of argument classification which move away from lexically-driven thematic role in the traditional sense and toward a more constrain , syntactically motivate , set of primitive . may 1997 264 pp . 0-19 - 823651 - 4 $ 55 . 0 oxford university press lexical semantics : the problem of polysemy edite by jame pustejovsky , brandei university , and branimir boguraev , natural language program , apple computer inc . , californium lexical ambiguity present one of the most intractable problem for language process study and , not surprisingly , it be at the core of research in lexical semantics . originally publish as two special issue of the journal of semantic , this collection focus on the problem of polysemy , from the point of view of practitioner of computational linguistics . january 1997 224 pp . ; 25 linecut 0-19 - 823662 - x paper $ 29 . 95 oxford university press parts and wholes in semantics friederike moltmann , city college of new york graduate center this book develop a unify account of expression involve the notion of " part " and " whole " in which principle of the individuation of part structure play a central role . moltmann present a range of new empirical generalization with datum from english and a variety of other language involve plural , mass noun , adnominal and adverbial modifier such as as a whole , together , and alone , nominal and adverbial quanitfier rang over part , and expression of completion such as completely and partly . she develop a new theory of part structure which differ from traditional mereological theory in that the notion of an integrate whole play a central role and in that the part structure of an entity be allow to vary across different situation , perspective , and dimension . august 1997 272 pp . 0-19 - 509574 - x $ 39 . 95 oxford university press diachronic prototype semantics : a contribution to historical lexicology dirk geeraert , katholieke universiteit leuven , belgium ( oxford study in lexicography and lexicology ) prototype theory make a crucial distinction between central and peripheral sense of word . geeraert explore the implication of this model for a theory of semantic change , in the first full-scale treatment of the impact of the most recent development in lexicological theory on the study of mean change . he identify structural feature of the development of word meaning which follow from a prototype-theoretical model of semantic structure , and incorporate these diachronic prototypicality effect into a theory of mean change . may 1997 224 pp . ; 20 b / w figure 0-19 - 823652 - 2 $ 65 . 0 oxford university press for more information about linguistic title from oxford university press : e-mail : linguistics @ oup-usa . org or visit the oxford university press usa web site : http : / / www . oup-usa . org oxford university press usa
