Subject: new book in psycholinguistics & neurolinguistics

the ascent of babel : an exploration of language , mind , and understand gerry t . m . altmann , university of york " altmann have write a cross between a textbook for begin psycholinguistic student and a popular science book for layperson . . . . altmann explain in lay term what psycholinguistic be and how its finding affect what we know of human experience . " - - booklist language be one of the faculty that set human apart from animal , the crucial thing which make our complex social interaction possible . it be a faculty which demand fantastically intricate mental and physical coordination , yet baby possess a remarkable ability to learn its complexity from a very early age . the ascent of babel explore the way in which the mind produce and understand language : the way in which the sound of language evoke mean , and the way in which the desire to communicate cause us to produce those sound to begin with . the " ascent " symbolise different thing : the progression from sound to mean , the ascent that we each undergo , from birth onward , as we learn our mother tongue , and the quest to understand the mental process which underlie our use of language . gerry altmann lead the reader on this ascent , which comprise a fascinate tour : from how baby learn language and how we discriminate between different sound , through comprehension of the sound and structure of language ( and the pitfall along the way ) , to the production of speak and write language , the effect of brain damage on language , and finally the way in which computer simulation of interconnect nerve cell can learn language . it be a journey of discovery , write in an engage and witty style , at the end of which it become clear that babel 's summit - the secret of language - may actually lie at its foundation , where baby play and language be learn . december 1997 272 pp . ; 46 linecut 0-19 - 852378 - 5 $ 27 . 50 oxford university press cognitive foundations of grammar bernd heine , university of cologne , germany the main function of language be to convey mean . therefore , argue bernd heine in these page , the question of why language be structure the way it be must first of all be answer with reference to this function . linguistic explanation offer in term of other exponent of language structure ( for example , syntax ) be likely to highlight peripheral or epi-phenomenal - - rather than central - - characteristic of language structure . heine provide a solid introductory treatment of the way in which language structure ( that be , grammar ) and language usage can be explain with reference to the process underlie human conceptualization and communication . explore an area of linguistics that have develop only recently and be rapidly expand , cognitive foundation of grammar will appeal to student of linguistics , psychology , and anthropology , especially those interest in grammaticalization processess . november 1997 200 pp . ; 11 linecut 0-19 - 510252 - 5 paper $ 19 . 95 0-19 - 510251 - 7 cloth $ 45 . 0 oxford university press narrative comprehension : a discourse perspective catherine emmott , university of glasgow there have so far be relatively little research by cognitive linguist on the comprehension of narrative text . this book draw on insight from discourse analysis and artificial intelligence to explore how reader construct and maintain mental representation of fictional character and context , and go on to consider the implication of cognitive model for grammatical theory and a literary-linguistic model of narrative text-type . june 1997 336 pp . ; 5 text-figure 0-19 - 823649 - 2 $ 80 . 0 oxford university press the inheritance and innateness of grammars edite by myrna gopnik , mcgill university , canada ( vancouver study in cognitive science 6 ) is language somehow innate in the structure of the human brain , or be it completely learn ? this debate be still at the heart of linguistics , especially as it intersect with psychology and cognitive science . in collect papers which discuss the evidence and argument regard this difficult question , the inheritance and innateness of grammar consider case rang from infant who be just begin to learn the property of a native language to language-impair adult who will never learn one . these study show that , while precursor of language exist in other creature , the ability necessary for construct full-fledge grammar be part of the biological endowment of human being . the essay that comprise this volume test the range and specificity of that endowment , while also contribute to our understand of the intricate and complex relationship between language and biology . june 1997 240 pp . ; 44 linecut 0-19 - 511534 - 1 paper $ 29 . 95 0-19 - 511533 - 3 cloth $ 60 . 0 oxford university press for more information about linguistic title from oxford university press : e-mail : linguistics @ oup-usa . org or visit the oxford university press usa web site : http : / / www . oup-usa . org oxford university press usa
