Subject: partially automate technique for transcription

acl / coling-98 workshop on partially automated techniques for transcribing naturally occurring , continuous speech august 16 , 1998 ( follow acl / coling-98 ) university of montreal , montreal ( quebec , canada ) call for papers description - - - - - - - - - - the development of robust system for speech analysis and synthesis depend crucially on the availability of well-annotate corpus of naturally occur , continuous speech . yet exist speech corpus be rarely well-annotate . a key to proper annotation be the availability of partially automate system for link select portion of a visual display of speech to the correspond transcription . to be of practical use , such system must be able to handle large file of digitize speech and they should permit transcription at different level of analysis . this workshop will be devote to the presentation and discussion of papers and software demonstration which reflect the current state of the art . we invite proposal of up to 800 word which address the development , use , evaluation , or potential commercial application of such system . submissions - - - - - - - - - - only email submission in latex or ascius will be accept . author should submit an abstract of no more than 800 word to : trans98 @ c . concordium . ca style file and template for latex submission can be find at http : / / colingacl98 . iro . umontreal . ca / style . html the official language of the conference be english . important deadlines - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - submission deadline : april 15 , 1998 notification deat : may 15 , 1998 camera ready copy due : june 15 , 1998 program committee - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - nancy belmore concordium university , canada sabine bergler concordium university , canada john esling univ . of victorium , canada eric keller univ . of lausanne , switzerland roland kuhn panasonic technology , inc . , u . s . a . dougla o'shaughnessy inrs - telecommunication , canada ching y . suen concordium university , canada organizers - - - - - - - - - nancy belmore concordium university , canada sabine bergler concordium university , canada dougla o'shaughnessy inrs - telecommunication , canada registration - - - - - - - - - - - there be a discount workshop fee for participant of cole / acl . participant who be not register for cole / acl will have to pay the full workshop fee ( to be announce shortly ) . information - - - - - - - - - - any request for information should be send to trans98 @ c . concordium . ca
