Subject: new book in theoretical & descriptive linguistics

dialogue and critical discourse : language , culture , critical theory michael macovskus , fordham university this interdisciplinary volume of collect , mostly unpublish essay demonstrate how mikhail bakhtin 's theory of dialogic mean - - and its subsequent elaboration - - have influence a wide range of critical discourse . with essay by michael holquist , jerome j . mcgann , john searle , deborah tannen , gary saul morson , caryl emerson , shirley brice heath , don h . bialostosky , paul friedrich , timothy austin , john farrell , rachel may , and michael macovskus , the collection explore dialogue not only as an exchange among intratextual voice , but as an extratextual interplay of historical influence , oral form , and cultural heuristic as well . such approach extend the implication of dialogue beyond the boundary of literary theory , to anthropology , philosophy , linguistics , and cultural study . the essay address such issue as the establishment and exercise of political power , the relation between conversational and literary discourse , the historical development of the essay , and the idea of literature as social action . taken together , the essay argue for a redefinition of literary mean - - one that be communal , interactive , and vocatively create . they demonstrate that literary mean be not render by a single narrator , nor even by a solitary author - - but be incrementally exchange and construct . august 1997 288 pp . ; 1 linecut 0-19 - 507063 - 1 $ 55 . 0 oxford university press projections and interface conditions : essay on modularity edite by anna - maria di sciullo , university of quebec at montreal this collection of previously unpublish papers explore the implication of chomsky 's " minimalist " framework for the modularity of grammar , which simplify the " modular " approach he take in his government and bind theory of grammar . accord to this theory autonomous grammatical component ( phonological , syntactic , morphological , and semantic ) coexist and interact like build block , use a give set of principle at give level of representation . chomsky 's assertion have spark a great deal of theoretical debate , especially with regard to the nature and interaction of each of the build block . the contributor to this volume join the debate in a series of case study that compare modularity in english , french , and italian , among other language . in the process they address such issue as the autonomy and application of module and their distribution in theory , as well as the role of functional project in their derivation . projection and interface condition will interest researcher in any of the above mention language , as well as the large number of linguist work in the chomskyan tradition . june 1997 272 pp . ; 84 linecut 0-19 - 510414 - 5 $ 60 . 0 oxford university press semiotic grammar william b . mcgregor , university of melbourne mcgregor propose and develop a new theory of grammar base on the notion of the linguistic sign . in interpret language and its structure as a semiotic system consist of sign , he provide a range of new analysis of well establish syntactic and morphological relation , category , and role . this book constitute an important and valuable contribution to linguistic theory , draw on the author 's extensive knowledge of australian aboriginal language , as well as discuss datum from more familiar language , such as english . december 1997 448 pp . ; 5 b / w figure 0-19 - 823688 - 3 $ 100 . 0 oxford university press indefinite pronouns martin haspelmath , free university of berlin ( oxford study in typology and linguistic theory ) oxford study in typology and linguistic theory offer a forum for promote research and analysis that be both typologically and theoretically inform . each book in the series will focus on a particular topic , provide an overview of the available cross-linguistic datum and , at the same time , engage such key theoretical issue as the boundary or limitation of different approach in deal with typological datum . this book be the first comprehensive and encyclopaedic investigation of indefinite pronoun ( expression like someone , anything , nowhere ) in the language of the world . it show that the range of variation in the functional and formal property of indefinite pronoun be subject to a set of universal implicational constraint , and propose explanation for these universal . february 1997 384 pp . ; 25 b / w figure , 1 map 0-19 - 823560 - 7 $ 72 . 0 oxford university press intransitive predication leon stassen , university of nijmegen , the netherland ( oxford study in typology and linguistic theory ) stassen make a major contribution to the study of language typology with intransitive predication . base his analysis on a sample of 410 language , he present a universally applicable model for define the domain of intransitive predication in natural language . intransitive predicate be define in term of four domain : event ( sarah be walk ) , class ( sarah be a secretary ) , property ( sarah be tall ) , and location ( sarah be in the garden ) . december 1997 800 pp . 0-19 - 823693 - x $ 145 . 0 oxford university press for more information about linguistic title from oxford university press : e-mail : linguistics @ oup-usa . org or visit the oxford university press usa web site : http : / / www . oup-usa . org oxford university press usa
