Subject: anthropological linguistic , vol . 39 , no . 4

* * anthropological linguistics , volume 39 , number 4 ( winter 1997 ) * * mary r . haas : a memorial issue contents editor 's introduction , douglas r . parks bibliography of mary r . haa background mary r . haa : a life in linguistic , sally mclendon mary r . haa : teacher , katherine turner the formative influence on mary r . haa 's career , victor golla mary r . haa and the " first yale school of linguistic " , regna darnell differ opportunity in language : a glimpse of relativity , eric p . hamp descriptive studies mary r . haa 's contribution to wakashan linguistic , william h . jacobsen , jr . the contribution of mary r . haa to the study of southeastern language , pamela munro mary r . haa and southeastern ethnography , raymond d . fogelson mary r . haa and ethnology , william c . sturtevant remember mary r . haa 's work on thaus , james a . matisoff mary r . haa and linguistic anthropology , william bright mary rosamond haa ( 1910-1996 ) , karl van duyn teeter mary haa : a real linguist of the nth degree , r . m . w . dixon teaching mary r . haa and " berkeley linguistic " , murray b . emeneau mary r . haa : lesson in and out of the classroom , sydney m . lamb the teach of mary r . haa , william shipley mary r . haa as anthropological linguist , allan r . taylor mary r . haa at berkeley in the sixty , mauricio j . mixco recollection of mary r . haa as teacher , supervisor , and inspiration , brent galloway historical comparison mary r . haa and historical linguistic , lyle campbell mary haa , algic , and the scientific consensus , joseph h . greenberg mary r . haa 's legacy for historical linguistic , catherine a . callaghan haa 's hokan : dead end , or gateway to the future ? , mauricio j . mixco epilogue a 1978 interview with mary r . haa , stephen o . murray * * * * * * * annual subscription rate ( for 4 issue ) : $ 30 for u . s . individual ; $ 38 for non - u . s . individual ; $ 65 for u . s . institution ; $ 75 for non - u . s . institution . payment should be in u . s . fund by check or postal money order make payable to anthropological linguistics . visa and mastercard be also accept . subscription and inquire should be send to : anthropological linguistic , student build 130 ( c ) , indiana university , bloomington , in 47405 usa ; fax : ( 812 ) 855-7529 ; e-mail : < anthle @ indiana . edu > . for abstract and more information , visit our website at : http : / / www . indiana . edu / ~ anthle
