Subject: wac4

world archaeology congress 4 cape town : 10 - 14 january 1999 theme : global archaeology at the turn of the millennium wac , the world archaeology congress , be inaugurate at its first congress in southampton in 1986 , and last meet in new delhus in 1994 . it conference and inter-congress have continue to develop the global dimension of archaeology and the social role that archaeologist play as interpreter of the past . we expect more than a thousand delegate in cape town , and we be plan an excite and stimulate programme that will do justice to the turn of the millennium . it be appropriate that wac4 should be hold in south africa . the world archaeology congress be form in opposition to apartheid , highlight the relationship between the study of the past and the politics of the present . south africa 's first democratic election in 1994 end a long , bitter era and archaeologist here be now free to be part of a world community of scholarship . the academic programme of the congress will be organise around symposium . these will be half-day , full-day or run theme , each organise by a symposium convenor . paper will be available electronically to register delegate prior to the congress , and full detail of the programme will be post on our website as they become available . the congress will be structure around three broad theme : time ; archaeology in a global context , and the future . this will provide a rich vein of intellectual stimulation , offer a truly global perspective on a discipline that have stimulate and satisfy many for well over a century . if you would like to attend the congress , please visit our website ( url below ) and register electronically , or complete the registration form in the second announcement which will be mail shortly . should you wish to deliver a paper , organise a symposium or workshop , present a poster or screen a film on an archaeological topic , demonstrate an archaeology-relate computer program or multimedium product , or rend exhibition space at the congress , please contact the congress secretariat : contact : carolyn ackermann wac4 congress secretariat address : po box 44503 claremont 7735 south africa telephone : + 27 ( 21 ) 762 8600 fax : + 27 ( 21 ) 762 8606 e-mail : wac4 @ globalconf . co . za website : http : / / www . uct . ac . za / dept / age / wac important date : 30 april 1998 : close date for submission of abstract and symposium convenor 's package with deposit where appropriate . 31 july 1998 : preliminary programme to be mail . applicant to be notify of acceptance of abstract / symposium . 15 november 1998 : paper to be make available on the congress website .
