Subject: tislr - 6 ( theoretical issue in sign lang . research )

[ for information , please use : info _ tislr @ gallua . gallaudet . edu instead . ] tislr 6 the sixth international conference on theoretical issue in sign language research http : / / www . gallaudet . edu / ~ aslweb / tislr98 / for info by email : info _ tislr @ gallua . gallaudet . edu kellogg conference center gallaudet university washington , dc , usa november 12-15 , 1998 call for papers abstract be invite for the tislr 98 conference to be hold november 12-15 at gallaudet university in washington , d . c . submission be invite on any aspect of research and theory about sign language include linguistic structure , language acquisition , language contact and bilingualism , variation , discourse analysis , poetic and metaphor , psycholinguistic and neuropsychological process , language assessment , gesture / sign relation , research methodology ( include transcription and code system , and computer-base datum management and network ) , and language attitude . * presentation mode will be 40 - minute papers , special interest workshop , research symposium , and poster . * research symposium will be 2 hour and will consist of 3 30 - minute papers on a give topic follow by a 30 - minute general discussion involve the audience . organizer of a symposium should submit a 150 - word abstract summarize the topic and goal of the symposium along with a 250 - word abstract for each research paper . * forty - minute papers will be 30 minute of presentation and 10 minute of discussion . poster session will be 2 hour long . paper and poster author should submit a 250 - word abstract . * workshop session will be 90 minute and gear toward a special interest topic . workshop organizer should submit a 250 - word abstract state the workshop topic , goal , intend audience , and method ( e . g . discussion , hand - on etc . ) . for information on submit abstract , see the web site at http : / / www . gallaudet . edu / ~ aslweb / tislr98 / call . html all submission must be receive by friday april 17 , 1998 * to assist the interpreter in prepare for your presentation and thereby ensure the quality of the presentation , draft of accept papers must be submit by october 1 , 1998 . please feel free to share this message with anyone who may be interest . finally , all of this information will also be on the conference website by the end of march . that address be http : / / www . gallaudet . edu / ~ aslweb / tislr98 information may be request by email to info _ tislr @ gallua . gallaudet . edu keynote speakers dr . william c . stokoe dr . stokoe earn his doctorate in old and middle english and classical language from cornell university in new york . he teach at gallaudet university for 29 year , from 1955 to 1984 . he have receive honorary degree from gallaudet university , copenhagen university , and madonna university . dr . stokoe 's research interest be : culture , cognition , and language , and especially how they begin . hbe presentation at the tislr conference will stress the need for look to the production and reception of language sign when they be visible instead of audible . early research on sign language have to stress its similarity to speak language . now we must study the difference , as have two reference point in understand language be far superior to have only one . dr . karen emmorey karen emmorey be a specialist in the psychology and neurobiology of language . she receive a ph . d . in linguistics in 1987 from the university of californium , lo angele , and she be currently a senior staff scientist in the laboratory for cognitive neuroscience at the salk institute for biological study . dr . emmorey study sign language as a window into the nature of human language , into the relation between language and spatial cognition , and into the determinant of brain organization for language . her current research focus on several question : what be the ramification of use space to express linguistic contrast in referential and spatial domain ? how be sign language understand in real time ( specifically , what mechanism be require to interpret co-reference convey spatially ? what be the effect of late language acquisition on language process ? how do experience with a sign language impact non-linguistic visual-spatial cognition ( specifically , face process , memory , and imagery ) ? what be the nature of work memory for sign language ? what be the neural organization for sign and speak language ? specifically , what brain area be involve in the comprehension and production of spatial language ( i . e . , describe space with classifier or preposition ) ? dr . emmorey 's keynote address will focus on only a small subset of these question . she will address the consequence of use sign space to describe physical space for language and cognitive process . dr . carol padden dr . padden receive her bachelor of science degree in linguistic from georgetown university , and her ph . d . , also in linguistic , from the university of californium at san diego . her current work be in the area of read ability in sign deaf child , and area of interest include : culture and language , representational system in sign language ( for example , fingerspel ) , and read development in young deaf child . the topic of her keynote presentation will be : read research with signer : a new research direction . dr . lar wallin dr . wallin be a faculty member at the university of stockholm , in stockholm , sweden , in the department of sign language . he be bear deaf and attend a deaf school grow up . he get his phd in sign language , 1994 , at stockholm university , write his thesis on polysynthetic sign in swedish sign language . hbe phd be the first phd in sign language in the world ( other take phd in linguistic or other subject , but not in sign language . ) he be also the first deaf person in sweden to get his phd . hbe current work be research and train in sign language linguistic at stockholm university . hbe current research be on : the use of classifier sign as free form in noun phrase in narrative discourse in swedish sign language ; the use of handshape and movement as bind morpheme in sign describe shape and size of the entity in swedish sign language . pre-conference workshop thursday , november 12 , 2 : 0 - 5 : 0 p . m . we be offer a workshop for those who be not familiar with theoretical linguistic issue . we will define phonology , morphology , syntax , language acquisition , and sociolinguistic , and discuss what each discipline be all about . this will give participant an opportunity to catch up with current , hot issue that conference presenter will be discuss . we will also briefly describe the presenter work , view and argument and compare how each presenter s work be similar or different from other . the workshop will take place before the conference begin . it be design to help you gain confidence and be able to participate effectively during the conference . please note that if you plan to participate in the pre-conference workshop , you must pre-register for the conference by october 9 . registration deadline : october 9 , 1998 . you must pre-register for this workshop . workshop fee : $ 30 conference registration for information relate to registration and accommodation . college for continue education attn : tislr ' 98 gallaudet university kellogg conference center 800 florida avenue , ne washington , dc 20002-3695 u . s . a . ( 202 ) 651-6060 tty / voice ( 202 ) 651-6074 fax conference @ gallua . gallaudet . edu
