Subject: new review of hypermedium and multimedium ( nmrh )

the new review of hypermedium and multimedium 1998 call for submission on the theme of ' adaptivity and user model in hypertext / hypermedium system ' , and ' hypermedium for museum and cultural heritage ' . nrhm ( previously hypermedium , one of the original journal on the subject ) be a referee annual review journal cover research on practical and theoretical development in hypermedium , interactive multimedium and relate technology . the new editorial team have introduce theme issue , each issue ( normally 10-12 papers ) will review and explore one or two topical theme from a variety of perspective . the main theme of the 1997 issue be the evaluation of hypermedium and multimedium system . the theme for the 1998 issue of the new review will be : - hypermedium for museum and cultural heritage theme editor dougla tudhope and daniel cunliffe - adaptivity and user model in hypertext / hypermedium system : guest editor peter brusilovsky and maria milosavljevic ( also see adaptive hypertext and hypermedium home page http : / / www . education . ut . edu . au / project / ah / index . html ) paper should be submit to the appropriate theme editor no later than june 1st 1998 . for instruction to author , see http : / / www . comp . glam . ac . uk / ~ nrhm / or contact the editor . submission be welcome on all aspect of the two theme , include but not restrict to : adaptive hypermedium user model in adaptive hypermedium adaptive educational hypermedium system adaptive information system adaptive museum hypermedium adaptive navigation support natural language technique for dynamic hypertext generation adaptive www navigation aid adaptive visualization of hypertext structure empirical study of adaptive hypermedium content adaptation in hypertext and hypermedium personalize information space adaptivity and adaptability in a hypermedium context adaptive information retrieval guest editor peter brusilovsky - plb @ c . cmu . edu school of computer science , carnegie mellon university , pittsburgh , pa 15213 , usa . maria milosavljevic - mariam @ mpce . mq . edu . au mri language technology group , macquarie university , sydney , nsw 2109 , australium . hypermedium for museum and cultural heritage hypermedium link service network access time-vary interactive presentation image , audio and video database navigation design intelligent hypermedium and agent web-base museum hypermedium spatial and temporal model evaluation and study of use metada and intellectual access thesaurus and semantic representation copyright / ipr for digital multimedium standard editor dougla tudhope - dstudhope @ glamorgan . ac . uk department of computer study university of glamorgan pontypridd , mid - glamorgan cf37 1dl wale , uk fax + 1443-482715 tel + 1443-482271 associate editor ( us ) andrew dillon - adillon @ uc . indiana . edu associate editor ( uk ) daniel cunliffe - djcunlif @ glamorgan . ac . uk for subscription information , contact taylor graham publish , 500 chesham house , 150 regent street , london w1r 5fa , uk .
