Subject: language conflict conference

announcing : an interdisciplinary conference " when language collide : sociocultural and geopolitical implication of language conflict and language coexistence " november 13-15 , 1998 ohio state university columbus , ohio rationale for conference : to discuss issue relate to language or dialect hegemony within society include , but not limit to , language plan , designation of national or official language , orthographic reform , dialect and language prestige , language endangerment and death , minority language status , gender or race-base linguistic hegemony , and the spread of english as the international language of science , business , etc . , and the reaction of non - english speak people to this . in other word , we seek a discussion of all area in which conflict or dispute arise as the result of competition between different language or between dialect within a single language . moreover , our interest be in the social , political , historical , and linguistic dimension of these issue , with a broad geographic coverage that be global in scope . conference theme : state - impose linguistic unity and its implication ; the linguistic legacy of colonialism ; international language , their positive and negative consequence ; contentious issue regard national or local language ; race - , ethnic - , gender - , and class-base dialect under siege by the dominant linguistic paradigm ; diglossium ; orthography in competition ; conflict romanization of language . feature plenary speaker : joshua fishman , stanford university victor a . friedman , university of chicago feature panelist : s . robert ramsey , university of maryland , college park yona sabar , university of californium at lo angele lachman kubchandanus , center for communication study , pune ( indium ) other invite speaker may be add in the next few week . call for paper : please send five copy of a one-page anonymous abstract ( no more than 500 word ) with a second page allowable for reference and datum , together with a 3 " x 5 " file card with your name , title of paper , address ( plus summer address , if different ) , phone number , fax , and e-mail address by may 15 , 1998 to : office of international study for more information , call : attn : language conference 614-292 - 8770 300 oxley hall or write to : 1712 neil avenue wolf . 5 @ osu . edu columbus , ohio 43210-1219 we anticipate publish select papers from the conference with a major university press .
