Subject: acl / coling workshop on translingual information management

! ! ! ! submission deadline march 23 ! ! ! ! coling-acl998 workshop on translingual information management current levels and future abilities august 16 , 1998 ( follow acl / coling-98 ) university of montreal , montreal ( quebec , canada ) call for papers description - - - - - - - - - - the development of natural language application which handle multi-lingual and multi-modal information be the next major challenge face the field of computational linguistics . over the past 50 year , a variety of language-relate capability have be develop in area such as machine translation , information retrieval , and speech recognition , together with core capability such as information extraction , summarization , parse , generation , multimedium plan and integration , statistics-base method , ontology , lexicon construction and lexical representation , and grammar . the next few year will require the extension of these technology to encompass multi-lingual and multi-modal information . extend current technology will require integration of the various capability into multi-functional natural language system . however , there be today no clear vision of how these technology could or should be assemble into a coherent framework . what would be involve in connect a speech recognition system to an information retrieval engine , and then use machine translation and summarization software to process the retrieve text ? how can traditional parse and generation be enhance with statistical technique ? what would be the effect of carefully craft lexicon on traditional information retrieval ? this workshop be a follow-on to an nsf - sponsor workshop hold in conjunction with the first international conference on language resource and evaluation in granada , spain ( may 1998 ) , at which an international panel of invite expert will consider these question in an attempt to identify the most effective future direction of computational linguistics research - - especially in the context of the need to handle multi-lingual and multi-modal information . the follow-on acl workshop be intend to open the discussion to the computational inguistic community as a whole . the workshop will include ample time for discussion . a report summarize the discussion at granada will be available before the acl workshop . topics - - - - - the workshop will focus on the follow fundamental question : 1 . what be the current level of capability in each of the major area of the field deal with language and relate media of human communication ? 2 . how can ( some of ) these function be integrate in the near future , and what kind of system will result ? 3 . what be the major consideration for extend these function to handle multi-lingual and multi-modal information , particularly in integrate system of the type envision in ( 2 ) ? in particular , we will consider these question in relation to the follow area : o multi-lingual resource ( lexicon , ontology , corpus , etc . ) o information retrieval , especially cross-lingual and cross-modal o machine translation o automate ( cross-lingual ) summarization and information extraction o multimedium communication , in conjunction with text o evaluation and assessment technique for each of these area o method and technique ( both statistics-base and linguistics - base ) of pre-parse , parse , generation , information acquisition , etc . we invite submission which report on work in these area . all papers should clearly identify how the work address the issue and question outline above . submissions - - - - - - - - - - only hard-copy submission will be accept . author should submit six ( 6 ) copy of the full-length paper ( 3500-5000 word ) . submission should be send to : nancy ide department of computer science vassar college 124 raymond avenue poughkeepsie , new york 12604-0520 usa style file and template for prepare submission can be find at http : / / coling-acl 98 . iro . umontreal . ca / style . html the official language of the conference be english . important deadlines - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - submission deadline : march 23 , 1998 notification deat : may 15 , 1998 camera ready copy due : june 15 , 1998 scientific committee - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - charle fillmore university of californium berkeley , usa robert frederk carnegie mellon university , usa ulrich heid university of stuttgart , germany eduard hovy information science institute , usa nancy ide vassar college , usa laurus karttunen ( tentative ) rank xerox research , france kimmo koskenniemus university of helsinkus , finland mun kew leong national university of singapore joseph marianus limsi / cnrs , france mark maybury the mitre corporation , usa sergeus nirenburg new mexico state university , usa akitoshus okumura nec , japan martha palmer university of pennsylvanium , usa jame pustejovsky brandei university , usa peter schaueble eth , switzerland oliviero stock irst , italy felisa verdejo uned , spain piek vossen university of amsterdam , netherland wolfgang wahlster dfki , germany organizers - - - - - - - - - robert frederk , carnegie mellon university , usa eduard hovy , isi , university of southern californium , usa nancy ide , vassar college , usa information - - - - - - - - - - information on the workshop can be find at http : / / www . c . vassar . edu / ~ ide / translingual . html inquiry may be address to the organizer : robert frederk < ref @ nl . c . cmu . edu > eduard hovy < hovy @ isus . edu > nancy ide < ide @ c . vassar . edu >
