Subject: phonology

new from holland academic graphic : the iambic issue : iambs as a result of constraint interaction by ruben van de vijver abstract : _ the iambic issue _ deal with a specific problem in metrical theory . iambic foot have some property that set them apart from trochaic foot : in iambic language , stress on both the first and on the last syllable be avoid ; iamb be not assign from right to leave ; the proto typical iambic foot ( a light syllable follow by a heavy syllable ) do not play a role in prosodic morphology . build on optimality theory , it be argue that iambic foot be the result of constraint interaction rather than be build block of metrical theory . in chapter 2 and 3 , the stress pattern of several carib and yupik language be analyze in considerable detail and it be show that the righthead foot find on the surface in these language be the result of the interaction between a constraint which favor lefthead foot and a constraint which bar both the initial and the final syllable from be stress . the claim that iamb can only arise at the leave edge of the word , and not on the right edge of the word , be substantiate in chapter 4 . in this chapter the stress pattern of several language , which be claim to have iamb arise at the right edge of the word , be analyze . an analysis of these language in term of lefthead foot be feasible as well , and , in many case , be even preferable . the prosodic morphology of a number of language be then investigate in chapter 5 . it be conclude that the prototypical iamb be never use as a build block in prosodic morphology . finally , a summary be present in chapter 6 . address issue in metrical phonology , this book be of interest for phonologist as well as researcher interest in prosodic morphology . paperback , xius + 271 pp . ( 16x24cm ) isbn 90-5569 - 32 - 6 [ hil dissertation , 37 ] with summary in dutch . price : nlg 40 ( = approx . $ 20 ) excl . p&p information and order : < mailto : mail @ hag . nl > or < http : / / www . hag . nl > . - - - - - - - - - - - - - the phonology of campidanian sardinian : a unitary account of a self-organizing structure _ the phonology of campidanian sardinian _ present a theoretical account of the phonological system of the phonological system of southern sardinian . in addition to a description of the rich variety of phonological fact of the language , a unitary framework be develop which be base on three exist theory : the dependency - base approach to segmental structure , metrical prosody and optimality theory . major revision and extension of the three theory be propose which lead to a unitary account of an entire phonological system , from the segmental level to the level of higher prosodic constituent . the phonological component of the grammar be argue to be subject to two conflict and complementary requirement : faithfulness to the underlie representation of lexical and phrasal input , and wellformedness requirement on the output . the former preserve the interpretive task of phonology , while the latter aim at the maximal regularity and predictability of sound pattern . conflict resolution between faithfulness and wellformedness constraint give rise to a phonological system which allow for both distinctiveness and learnability . as this book provide a description of an entire phonological system , as well as a theoretical account of the mental organization of sound pattern which underlie the observe phenomenon , _ the phonology of campidanian sardinian be of interest both for descriptive and theoretical phonologist . paperback , xxius + 516 pp . ( 16x24cm ) isbn 90-5569 - 35 - 0 [ hil dissertation , 38 ] with summary in dutch . holland academic graphic [ scientific [ document ] process ] po box 53292 2505 ag the hague the netherland phone : + 31 70 448 131 fax : + 31 70 448 127 e-mail : rene @ hagpub . com http : / / www . hag . nl
