Subject: fhcg98 - final call for paper

fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 joint conference on formal grammar , head-driven phrase structure grammar , and categorial grammar august 14-16 , 1998 , saarbruecken , germany final call for papers fhcg-98 combine the 4th conference on formal grammar and the 5th conference on head - drive phrase structure grammar . it precede the 10th european summer school in logic , language , and information ( esslli x ) . aims and scope fhcg-98 hope to provide a platform for presentation of new and original research on formal grammar , head-driven phrase structure grammar , and categorial grammar . theme of interest include , but be not limit to , * formal and computational syntax , semantics , and pragmatic ; * head-driven phrase structure grammar and categorial grammar ; * model-theoretic and proof-theoretic method in linguistics ; * constraint-base and resource-sensitive approach to grammar ; * foundational , methodological and architectural issue in grammar . special events the conference feature a symposium on unbound dependency as well as a special session on information package . symposium on unbound dependency : empirical problem and formal technique invite speaker : anne abeille ( pari 7 university ) bob carpenter ( bell lab , murray hill ) michael moortgat ( utrecht university ) ivan sag ( stanford university ) ed stabler ( ucla ) annie zaenen ( xerox , grenoble ) the symposium provide a comparison of recent work on unbound dependency from various theoretical angle . relevant empirical issue include , but be not limit to , parasitic gap , relative clause , pied-pip , atb - phenomenon , weak and strong island , comparative , and the semantics of wh-question . there will be presentation focus on recent work in hpsg , lfg , tag , cg , and the minimalist framework , follow by a panel discussion . special session on information package invite speaker : elisabeth engdahl ( university of gothenburg ) enric vallduvus ( universitat pompeu fabra , barcelona ) this session be concern with formal approach to information package - - - those linguistic strategy which allow information to be encode in different way , appropriate to different context , emphasize the interpretive significance of basic information package distinction and their grammatical realization within and across natural language . the special session will consist of two invite lecture and contribute papers appropriate to its theme . submission details we invite e-mail submission of abstract for 30 - minute papers ( include question and comment ) . a submission should consist of two part : - an information sheet ( in ascius ) , contain the name of the author ( s ) , affiliation ( s ) , e-mail and postal address ( e ) , a title , and an indication whether the paper be to be consider for the special session on information package ; - an abstract , consist of a description of not more than 5 page ( include figure and reference ) . abstract may be either in plain ascii or in ( unix-compatible encode ) postscript , pdf , or dvi . please avoid use binhex or mime . abstract can be send to fg @ ufal . mff . cunus . cz ( geert - jan m . kruijff ) abstract submission deadline march , 31 , 1998 notification of acceptance may , 15 , 1998 proceedings a full version of the accept paper will be include in the conference proceedings , to be distribute at the conference . full papers be due july , 1 , 1998 . publication pend final approval by the publisher , a select number of papers will be publish as a volume of the recently start csli - series " study in constraint - base lexicalism " , with series editor andrea kathol , jean - pierre koenig and sbe mchombo . there will be a separate round of submission and review for this volume after the conference . programme committee gosse bouma ( groningen , chair ) richard oehrle ( arizona , chair ) klaus netter ( dfki , local arrangement ) geert - jan kruijff ( prague , submission ) anne abeille ( pari ) bob kasper ( ohio state ) bob carpenter ( bell lab ) andrea kathol ( uc berkeley ) john coleman ( oxford ) shalom lappin ( london ) ann copestake ( csli ) glyn morrill ( barcelona ) mary dalrymple ( xerox parc ) tsuneko nakazawa ( tokyo ) elisabeth engdahl ( gotenborg ) anton nijholt ( twente ) daniele godard ( pari ) gertjan van noord ( groningen ) erhard hinrich ( tuebingen ) carl pollard ( ohio state ) jack hoeksema ( groningen ) further information web site for esslli x : http : / / top . coli . uni-sb . de / essllus / web site for fhcg-98 : http : / / www . dfkus . de / event / hpsg98 / the organizer : gosse bouma ( chair ) gosse @ let . rug . nl dick oehrle ( chair ) rto @ chol . douglass . arizona . edu klaus netter ( local arrangement ) klaus . netter @ dfkus . de geert - jan kruijff ( paper submission ) gj @ ufal . mff . cunus . cz fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 fhcg-98 - gosse bouma , alfa - informatica , rug , postbus 716 , 9700 as groningen gosse @ let . rug . nl tel . + 31-50 - 3635937 fax + 31-50 - 3636855
