Subject: 2nd cfp konvens98

second call for papers konvens 98 computer , linguistik und phonetik zwischen sprache und sprechen computer , linguistic , and phonetic between language and speech 4 . konferenz zur verarbeitung natuerlicher sprache - 4th conference on natural language process oct . 5 - 7 , 1998 , university of bonn , germany http : / / www . ikp . uni-bonn . de / konvens98 organize by : gesellschaft fuer linguistische datenverarbeitung ( gldv ) ( responsible in 1998 ) deutsche gesellschaft fuer sprachwissenschaft ( dgfs ) gesellschaft fuer informatik ( gi ) , fa 1 . 3 " natuerliche sprache " informationstechnische gesellschaft / deutsche gesellschaft fuer akustik ( itg / dega ) oesterreichische gesellschaft fuer artificial intelligence ( oegai ) call for papers subject of the conference be all area of language process deal with language in its write or speak form . special attention will be pay to approach focus on the structural and the phonological / phonetic aspect of computer-aid / base language research and aim at bridge the gap between both aspect . please submit proposal for : - lecture , - workshop , - demonstration and - poster . all proposal will be review anonymously . please add a title page specify the author 's name and institution as well as title and form of the contribution . proposal should be submit in 5 paper copy ( din a4 paper size , time 12pt ) , and in electronic form per e-mail ( preferably latex or ps ) . word and wordperfect format file and latex style file will be available for download after march 15 , 1998 . proposal should not exceed 10 page for lecture , and 5 page for workshop . poster contribution will be publish as short papers limit to 4 page . workshop proposal should explain the significance of the subject , and they should name the prospective participant and their contribution . demonstration should be briefly describe ; the equipment need should be specify . all proposal should contain german and english abstract of 12 line max . conference language be german and english . all proposal be review by at least two independent reviewer nominate by the programme committee . accept proposal will be publish in the conference proceedings which will be available before the begin of the conference . deadlines march 1 , 1998 deadline for the submission of workshop proposal april 15 , 1998 deadline for the submission of proposal for lecture and poster may 15 , 1998 notification on acceptance june 15 , 1998 submission of the printable contribution to the proceedings july 15 , 1998 deadline for submit proposal for system demonstration local organizers prof . dr . wolfgang hess prof . dr . winfry lender dr . thoma portele dr . bernhard schroeder programme committee dr . ernst buchberger , wien ( oegai ) dr . stefan busemann , saarbruecken ( gi ) prof . dr . dafydd gibbon , bielefeld ( dgfs ) prof . dr . wolfgang hoeppner , duisburg ( gi ) prof . dr . roland hausser , erlangen ( gldv ) prof . dr . wolfgang hess , bonn ( itg / dega ) prof . dr . r . hoffmann , dresden ( itg / dega ) dr . tibor kiss , heidelberg ( dgfs ) prof . dr . winfry lender , bonn ( gldv ) dr . harald trost ( oegai ) conference office giselum von neffe institut fuer kommunikationsforschung und phonetik der universitaet bonn poppelsdorfer allee 47 d-53115 bonn internet : http / / : www . ikp . uni-bonn . de / konvens98 / index . en . html email : konvens98 @ uni-bonn . de phone : + 49-228 - 735638 fax : + 49-228 - 735639 location konvens 98 will take place at the university of bonn 's central build , which be situate in the city 's centre , in walk distance from the main railway station . world wide web http : / / www . ikp . uni-bonn . de / konvens98
