Subject: cross - language informational retrieval

kluwer academic publishers be proud to announce the publication of : cross-language information retrieval edit by gregory grefenstette rank xerox european research centre , france cross - language information retrieval be the first book that address the problem of access multilingual information through a single-language query . this research problem be receive grow attention by us and foreign government . the universal adoption of the internet and the www have create an enormous , multilingual virtual textual database . rather than look upon foreign language document as distract noise , one can consider these document as untap source of information . cross - language information retrieval describe the problem , highlight the difference between the field and the relate area of machine translation and information retrieval . researcher from europe , japan and america present a wide variety of technique and experimental result . the life-size experiment be run on modern large-scale retrieval testbed , run up to hundred of megabyte of text . the technique involve use bilingual dictionary , machine translation system , parallel text corpus , comparable but non-parallel text corpus , latent semantic index , and weight boolean interrogation . this volume be suitable as a secondary text for a graduate level course on cross - language information retrieval , and as a reference for researcher and practitioner in industry . content and contributor preface . 1 . the problem of cross - language information retrieval ; g . grefenstette 2 . on the effective use of large parallel corpora in cross - language text retrieval ; m . w . davi 3 . statistical method for cross - language information retrieval ; l . ballestero , w . b . croft 4 . distribute cross - lingual information retrieval ; c . fluhr , et al 5 . automatic cross - language information retrieval using latent semantic index ; m . l . littman , et al . 6 . mapp vocabulary using latent semantic ; d . a . evan , et al . 7 . cross - language information retrieval : a system for comparable corpus query ; e . picchus , c . peter . 8 . a language conversion front - end for cross - language information retrieval ; y . kiyoshus , et al . 9 . the systran nlp browser : an application of machine translation technology in cross - language information retrieval ; d . a . gachot , et al . 10 . a weight boolean model for cross - language text retrieval ; d . hull . 11 . build a large multilingual test collection from comparable new document ; p . sheridan , et al . 12 . evaluate cross - language text filter effectiveness ; d . w . oard , b . j . dorr . reference . index . the kluwer international series on information retrieval , volume 2 kluwer academic publisher , boston hardbound , isbn 0-7923 - 8122 - x , march 1998 , 200 pp . , $ 115 . 0 for more information about this publication , please visit our on - line catalogue at : http : / / www . wkap . nl or you may order directly from : kluwer academic publisher 101 philip drive norwell , ma . 1073 phone : 781-871 - 6600 , fax : ( 781 ) 871-6528 , e - mail : kluwer @ wkap . com kluwer academic publisher p . o . box 322 3300 ah dordrecht , the netherland phone 31 78 639 2392 , fax : 31 78 6546474 , e - mail : service @ wkap . nl
