Subject: syntax

call for papers second tromsoe syntax workshop ' vo and ov ' may 22-23 , 1998 university of tromsoe invite speaker : michael brody hubert haider roland hinterhoelzl susan pintzuk is the difference between vo language and ov language a function of phrase structure , of movement , of directionality of license , or of something else ? if movement , be it movement of the verb , of the argument , of the vp , or some combination of these ? is ov order in a ( n otherwise ) vo language drive by the same factor that lead to the unmark order in an ov language ? or vice versa ? how do these model account for the change of a language from ov to vo , or vice versa ? these be just some of the question that may be raise in connection with the theme of this workshop . abstract ( one page + graphic and example ) be invite for 45 minute talk . abstract may be submit by snailmail or by e-mail . the deadline for receipt of abstract be april 15 ! hardcopy submission : a single copy of the abstract , with the author 's name , affiliation , snailmail address , and e-mail address should be send to : ander holmberg hum fak , linguistic university of tromsoe n-9037 tromsoe norway e - mail submission : the abstract , with the author 's name , affiliation , and snailmail address , should be send as an ordinary e-mail document to : peter svenonius : sven @ isl . uit . no e - mail submission must contain the expression " vo and ov abstract " in the subject line . non - ascius character should be avoid . ascius character can be use in idiosyncratic way if a gloss be provide . e - mail submission receive by the deadline will be acknowledge within a day or so . inquiry may also be address to peter svenonius , sven @ isl . uit . no . inquiry should not contain the expression , " vo and ov abstract " in the subject line . we regret that we do not have fund to finance the travel or lodge expense of speaker . however , crash space can be arrange . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ander holmberg phone : + 47 77645616 department of linguistic fax : + 47 77645625 university of tromso 9037 tromso norway
