Subject: twd ' 98 call for paper

think with diagram ' 98 ( twd ' 98 ) * * * call for papers * * * the university of wale aberystwyth , unite kingdom august 22-23 , 1998 http : / / www . aber . ac . uk / ~ plo / twd98 / twd98 . htm - 1 may , submission of full papers - 15 july , submission of summary papers - 22-23 august , twd ' 98 diagram be essential in most field of human activity . there be substantial interest in diagram and their use in many academic discipline for the potential benefit they may confer on a wide range of task . are we now in a position to claim that we have a science of diagram ? that be , a science which take the nature of diagram and their use as the central phenomenon of interest . a science which be attempt to understand how diagram differ from other representational system and try to develop principle for the design of effective graphical representation . a science which consider how diagram communicate information and how they be use to solve problem . if we have a science of diagram it be certainly constitute from multiple discipline , include : cognitive science , psychology , artificial intelligence , logic , mathematics , and other . if there be a science of diagram , then like other science , there be an application or " engineer " discipline that exist alongside the science . application and engineer provide test of the theory and principle discover by the science and extend the scope of the phenomenon to be study by generate new use of diagram , new media for present diagram , or novel class of diagram . this application and engineer side of the science of diagram also comprise multiple discipline , include : education , architecture , computer science , mathematics , human - computer interaction , knowledge acquisition , graphic design , engineer , history of science , statistics , medicine , biology , and other . two authoritative figure in the field have agree to be the workshop 's guest speaker : prof . arthur i miller professor of history and philosophy of science university college london . prof . aaron sloman professor of ai cognitive science university of birmingham . the theme of twd98 will be - is there a science of diagram ? by provide a forum for the presentation and discussion of quality research on diagram and diagram use , we not only try to answer this question , but more importantly attempt draw together the many different approach , theory and result that we have in the many diverse discipline that be concern with diagram . the question provide a vehicle on which to attempt to integrate what be currently a disparate and disorder set of activity into a more rational and coherent programme of research . is there any common core to the activity which provide a basis for the claim that the " think with diagram " community could constitute a science ? for further information : patrick olivier ( plo @ aber . ac . uk ) home page : http : / / www . aber . ac . uk / ~ plo / twd98 / twd98 . htm - patrick olivier department of computer science university of wale , aberystwyth ceredigion , uk sy23 3db tel : + 44 1970 622447 fax : + 44 1970 622455 plo @ aber . ac . uk http : / / www . aber . ac . uk / ~ plo /
