Subject: conference on linguistic theory in eastern european language

the first conference on linguistic theory in eastern european language convene betweeen 19-21 april , 1998 , in szege , hungary , as organize by the phd program in theoretical linguistic of jozsef attilum university . the purpose of the conference be to bring together researcher and student of various east european language to exchange and discuss idea relate to theoretical issue , this time mostly in syntax and phonology . we have invite lead expert as keynote speaker , include maria - luisa rivero ( u of ottawa ) , michael brody ( university college london and linguistic institute , budapest ) , marcel den dikken ( u of tilburg ) , and olga miseska tomic ( u of novus sad ) . the session of the conference be : verb - movement & clitic clitic verb - movement in hungarian movement case & agreement negation & functional category phonology , and among the speaker be hilda koopman , katalin e . kiss , ljiljana progovac , tobia scheer . the detail program of the conference be as follow . alexandra cornilescu ( universiry of bucharest ) : case and aspectual structure : investigate romanian nominalization alexeus kochetov ( university of toronto ) : the role of contrast in shap inventory : palatalize coronal in slavic dalina kallullus ( university of durham , university of vienna ) : on non - active morphology in albanian danielum corina ionescu ( university of bucharest ) : a avea + small clause construction - a case of participle agreement in romanian danielum isac ( university of bucharest ) : on negation in romanian danijelum stojanovic ( university of ottawa ) : sentence process strategy in the adult and child grammar of serbo - croatian david willi ( university of oxford ) : reanalysis in old russian periphrastic verbal construction e . kiss katalin : the hungarian verbal complex revisit ewa willim ( jagiellonian university , krakow ) : on functional category - a case study of the det ( erminer ) paradigm in polish , an articeless language galina alexandrova ( university of ottawa ) : control agree to subordination hilda koopman and anna szabolcsus ( ucla ) : overt syntax and hungarian complex verb formation iliyana krapova ( university of plovdiv ) : subjunctive complement , null subject and case check in bulgarian ivanka p . schick ( university of potsdam ) : double clitic and information - structure in modern bulgarian jacek witko : verb movement and clitic auxiliary in polish revisit joel hoffmann : paratactic movement phenomena ljiljana progovac ( wayne state university ) : eventive " to " and the placement of clitic in serbian marcel den dikken ( tilburg university ) : ( antus - ) agreement in clause and nominal phrase maria luisa rivero ( university of ottawa ) : stylistic verb movement in balkan and slavic language michael brody : partial chain and bare check theory olga tomic ( university of novus sad ) : on cliticshood surenyus balez and csirmaz aniko ( elte , budapest ) : ott there in hungarian : a case of an expletive ? tanium avgustinova and bistra andreeva ( university of saarland ) : intonational property of bulgarian replicate nominal material ( a study base on map task dialogue ) tobia scheer ( universite de nice ) : vowel - zero alternation in czech prefix uwe junghann ( universitaet leipzig ) : syntactic position and discourse function of adverbial in russian this information and the abstract can be find at the http : / / www . art . u-szege . hu / dep / genlinguistic / clite / www address , too .
