Subject: language resource and evaluation

provisional programme and call for participation towards a european evaluation infrastructure for nl and speech . a workshop jointly organise by the european network of excellence in language and speech elsnet and the ec language engineering-4 project else to be hold on wednesday may 27 , 9 : 00-13 : 0 at the first international conference on language resources and evaluation granada , spain right now , a generic framework for semi-automatic quantitative black-box evaluation of speech and nlp system do not exist in europe . when confront to a choice , developer and user prefer to ask the opinion of local expert as any other way of process be either unrealistic or too costly . the le - 4 project else aim at provide developer with a generic strategy and definition of the primary build block need to implement a semi-automatic quantitative black-box evaluation scheme . prominent speaker from field the have be invite to present papers address motivation , advantage , but also problem in connection with the implementation of such an evaluation scheme at an international scale . provisional programme : 09 : 0 open ( joseph marianus , steven krauwer ) 09 : 5 confirm presentation : " the darpa experience " ( charle wayne ) " ethology and sociology of evaluation " ( lynette hirschman ) " the aupelf experience " ( joseph marianus ) " experience in grace tag evaluation " ( patrick paroubek ) " experience in bilingual text alignment evaluation and word sense disambiguation " ( jean veroni ) " best practice and evaluation " ( ole bernsen / lailum dybkjaer ) " confidence measure and evaluation " ( lin chase ) " evaluation within eagle " ( maghus king ) " technology v user - evaluation " ( marc blasband ) " organise parser evaluation " ( richard sutcliffe ) " evaluation for better product " ( christian dugast ) " resource for evaluation " ( mark liberman ) " the else project " ( patrick paroubek ) 12 : 0 panel and discussion ( rob gaizauska , moderator ) 13 : 0 close the select topic include the multilingual nature of evaluation , lesson from the past ( in europe and the us ) , and the need for language resource . at the workshop the first intermediate result of the else project will be present and discuss . this call serve to invite interest party to active participation in the workshop . dure the workshop , ample opportunity will be provide for the participant to react to the presentation of the else project , and to the talk by the invite speaker . furthermore participant will be give the opportunity to give brief position statement . the workshop be very timely as it take place when the ec 's 5th framework programme be take shape . it be clear that the availability of a european evaluation infrastucture can be an important factor in european r&d activity , and that it can only be successful if it be organize and implement on a european scale . programme committee the workshop be coorganize by elsnet and else . the programme committee will consist of the participant in the else le - 4 project : niel ole bernsen jean - pierre chanod khalid choukrus robert gaizauska steven krauwer isabelle de lamberterie joseph marianus klaus netter patrick paroubek martin rajman antonio zampollus contact steven krauwer tran 10 , 3512 jk utrecht , the netherland phone : + 31 30 253 6050 fax : + 31 30 253 6000 email : steven . krauwer @ let . ruu . nl registration information for lrec and pre and post conference workshops conference the registration fee will be 25 . 0 peseta ( about 150 ecu ) per participant , with reduce fee of 20 . 0 peseta ( about 120 ecu ) for early registration by march 9 , 1998 , and 12 . 0 peseta ( about 70 ecu ) for student . the fee cover the follow service : a copy of the proceedings , a social dinner , coffee break and refreshments . for accompany person , the social dinner will be 6 . 0 peseta ( about 35 ecu ) . pre conference workshop pre conference workshop be 5 , 0 peseta each for those attend lrec and 10 , 0 peseta each for those not attend lrec , and include a copy of the proceedings of the workshop and a coffee break . post conference workshop the 2 - day post conference workshop be 10 , 0 peseta for those attend lrec and 20 , 0 peseta for those not attend lrec , and include a copy of the proceedings of the workshop and coffee break . registration willbe make only for those person who have be invite to participate by the organizer . registration can be make on-site and must be pay in cash , use peseta . for registration forms and more info : http : / / cere . ugr . e / ~ rubio / elra . html
