Subject: uil-ots ( utrecht )

second announcement call for papers the utrecht congress on " storage and computation in linguistic " * * * * * utrecht institute of linguistic ots utrecht , the netherland , october 19th , 20th and 21st , 1998 deadline for submission of abstract : may 15th , 1998 * * * * * on the occasion of its tenth anniversary , the utrecht institute of linguistic ots be organize a three-day international congress from october 19th through october 21st 1998 . the theme of this congress be " storage and computation in linguistic " . invite speaker include : steve pinker , even lecture ; ray jackendoff ( keynote lecture ) / fran zwart , the architecture of the language faculty ; harald clahsen / steven gilli , language acquisition ; john ohalum / geert booij , language change ; sarah thomason / pieter muysken , language variation ; nichola asher / fran van eemeren , discourse analysis ; ed keenan & ed stabler / jan koster , grammar design . two distinct cognitive resource that people may employ in interpret and produce linguistic utterance be , on the one hand , memory , and , on the other , computational procedure . an utterance may be assign a certain structure and interpretation because it be recognize as an instance of a pattern that be store in memory , or because computational procedure build up a complex representation of that pattern . in linguistics , this contrast be usually identify with the contrast between lexicon and grammar . in the context of this congress , the distinction be broadly conceive as a tool for explore our understand of language structure and language use . the relation between storage and computation will be analyse on the basis of a broad range of empirical question , concern issue in the representation and acquisition of linguistic knowledge , the foundation of language and information , and the cognitive and computational aspect of language use and process . implication of the distinction between storage and computation will be discuss for six different domain of linguistic inquiry : - the architecture of the language faculty - language acquisition - language change - language variation - discourse analysis - grammar design the format of the congress be as follow : ( 1 ) a number of well-known linguistic scholar of different persuasion and from different subdiscipline be ask to contribute invite papers relate to the congress theme . there will be two invite speaker for each of the six domain of linguistic inquiry mention above . ( 2 ) there will be around twenty slot for presentation of select papers . each select paper will be allot 25 minute , include discussion . there will only be plenary session . abstract submission to submit a paper , participant be request to send one original and four anonymous copy of a one-page abstract , by regular mail . each abstract should at least contain the follow information : name of author , title of the paper , brief description of the content of the paper , and an indication of how this paper be relate to the theme of the congress the abstract should preferably be print in time new roman on white paper of a4 size , with top and bottom margin of 2 . 54 cm and leave and right margin of 3 . 17 cm . the total number of word in the abstract should not exceed 500 . together with the abstract please send a 3 " x 5 " index card with the follow information : - title of the paper ; - name ( s ) of author ( s ) ; - mail address of ( first ) author ; - affiliation ; - phone number ; - electronic mail address of ( first ) author . deadline the abstract must have reach us before may 15th 1998 . on the basis of abstract , selection will take place during the month of june 1998 . notification of acceptance or rejection will be give before july 1st 1998 . practical information organize institute : utrecht institute of linguistic ots congress committee : sieb nooteboom ( chairman ) , leslie dijkstra ( secretariate ) , jan don , ton naaijken , henriette de swart , arie verhagen , fred weerman , frank wijnen date : deadline abstract : may 15th 1998 notification : before july 1st early registration : before october 1st 1998 congress : october 19th , 20th , and 21st 1998 fee : registration before october 1st 1998 : dfl 100 , - ( dfl . 50 , - for student with proof of studentship ) registration after october 1st 1998 : dfl . 150 , - ( dfl . 75 , - for student with proof of studentship ) registration a registration form be available from our secretariate ( for address see above ) or can be find at our website http : / / www-uilot . let . ruu . nl / uil - ots / conference / sc _ home . htm * * * * * the utrecht congress on storage and computation in linguistic 1998 utrecht institute of linguistic ots tran 10 3512 jk utrecht the netherland phone : # 31 30 253 6006 fax : # 31 30 253 6000 e-mail : uil-ot @ let . ruu . nl * * * * *
