Subject: cald workshop on mixe medium database

the deadline for submission to the cald workshop on mixe medium database be april the 5th . please send submission to arrive at the address give below by that date . author will be notify of paper acceptance by april the 15th if an email address be provide with their submission . the call follow . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - you be invite to participate in the center for automate learn and discovery workshop on mixe medium database . this workshop will be hold in conjunction with the conference on automate learn and discovery , be hold at carnegie mellon university in pittsburgh from june the 11th to the 13th 1998 . this workshop be intend for researcher with an interest in learn from multiple media . the workshop will emphasize both algorithm and application of learn with mix media database . paper that describe algorithm should cover either novel approach design to benefit from mixed-medium datum , or modification of standard algorithm that utilize multiple media datum source . application papers should clearly demonstrate the benefit of learn from two or more type of media . different media area to be address include : vision : image , video , and vrml speech and audio text , include ocr , close - caption , handwrit , and web-document olfactory perception haptic and touch sense if you would like to present at this workshop , please submit a paper describe original research work and result . four copy of the paper should be submit in hardcopy by april the 5th , 1998 . because of the deadline extension , submission should be send , in quadruplicate , to : cald workshop on mixe medium database attn : michael witbrock justresearch 4616 henry st , pittsburgh pa 15213 the ideal paper should cover two or more topic list above and apply some aspect of learn to the multiple media datum . the learn may involve , but be not limit to neural network , as well as statistical and probabilistic model . all statistical , probabilistic , and learn approach be welcome . paper submit to this workshop may also be submit to other conference or to journal . detail submission instruction can be find at the follow url , but you should remember the alter deadline and submission address give above : http : / / www . c . cmu . edu / ~ conald / call . shtml select papers from the workshop will be consider for publication in an upcome special issue of ieee expert journal . organizer : shumeet baluja ( baluja @ justresearch . com ) christo faloutso ( christo @ c . cmu . edu ) alex hauptmann ( alex + @ c . cmu . edu ) michael witbrock ( witbrock @ justresearch . com ) the conference main site be at http : / / www . c . cmu . edu / ~ conald / please visit it soon . and please forward this call to any colleague who may be interest . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - michael witbrock justresearch research scientist 4616 henry st , pittsburgh , pa 15213 phone : + 1 412 683 9486 fax : + 1 412 683 4175 witbrock @ justresearch . com http : / / www . justresearch . com /
