Subject: 3rd machine translation conference amta-98

- - - call for submissions - - - association for machine translation in the america amta-98 conference , langhorne , pa , october 28-31 , 1998 machine translation and the information soup ( mt in a grow field of language technology ) follow successful amta conference in 1994 and 1996 , the third conference of the association for machine translation in the america will be hold in langhorne , pa , at the sheraton buck county hotel , on october 28-31 , 1998 . the mt summit last year commemorate the 50th anniversary of machine translation . dure that time , mt grow from a tantalize dream to a respectable and stable scientific-linguistic enterprise , with user , commercial system , university research , and government participation . but until very recently , mt have be perform in a relatively isolate manner , as a distinct enterprise . this situation be change rapidly . the explosive growth of the web have bring multilingual text into the reach of nearly everyone with a computer . it be increasingly urgent that the various type of language process technology - - information retrieval , automate summarization , multimodal and multilingual display , and machine translation - - be interconnect . once again there will be something for everyone ! retain the pattern establish by its predecessor , amta-98 will offer a blend of invite talk , panel discussion , research papers , system demonstration and description , tutorial , workshop , book exhibit , and social event . the four day of the conference will also facilitate gathering of the special interest group on topic rang from interlingua and ontology , lexicon , standard and datum exchange , mt on pcs , and mt evaluation . the overall intent of the conference be to bring together mt developer , researcher , and user , to share the latest information on mt and to forge partnership for address the challenge of language barrier that impede communication on the information highway . participation by member of amta 's sister organization in europe and asium be strongly encourage . invite talk and panel discussion will highlight topical and controversial question , encourage lively interaction , as they do at past conference . in the theory session , technical papers will address a wide range of topic , while in practical session , the problem of develop and bring mt system to market or intergrate mt technology into the workplace will be discuss . in addition , booth can be rent to display system and product . conference organizers general chair : eduard hovy , usc information science institute program chair : david farwell , crl , new mexico state university laurie gerber , systran software , inc . ( san diego ) local arrangement chair : martha palmer , university of pennsylvanium amta-98 : paper and system description / demonstration submissions . author / system developer be invite to submit three kind of presentation : 1 . theoretical papers : unpublish papers be request about original work on all aspect of machine translation . however , give the theme of this year 's conference , special consideration will be give to papers which address advance in multilingual language and information technology which have a potential impact on machine translation . paper should be in english , not longer than 10 page , with minimum character font size of 11 pt . 2 . system description with optional system demonstration : approx . 25 minute will be allocate per system description / demo . submission should be in english , not longer than 4 page . if a system demonstration be include , please provide the follow information : - hardware platform , - operate system , - name and contact information of system operation specialist . 3 . study of user experience with implement mt or test its applicability to some task . user and market consultant be especially welcome to submit . study should be in english , not longer than 8 page , with minimum character font size of 11 pt . first page : all type of submission should include a separate title page with the follow information : - paper title , - author ( s ) ' name ( s ) , address ( e ) , telephone and fax number , email address ( e ) , - one-paragraph abstract , - for theoretical papers : subject area keyword ( s ) for user study : the word " user study " for system description / demo : the word " system description / demo " . submission be due at address below on june 1 , 1998 . author will be notify of acceptance on july 15 , 1998 . final copy of papers be due on august 31 , 1998 . softcopy submission ( papers that do not print will be return to the author ) : email address : david @ crl . nmsu . edu subject line : amta-98 submission paper encode : - ascii plain text - microsoft word ( rtf format ) - postscript hardcopy submission ( please send four ( 4 ) copy ) : amta-98 : david farwell compute research laboratory box 30001 / 3crl new mexico state university las cruce , nm 88003 usa amta-98 : tutorial and workshop submissions . proposal for tutorial and workshop be also welcome at this time for topic of direct interest and impact for mt researcher , developer , vendor or user of mt technology . approx . 3 hour will be allocate per tutorial . approx . 7 hour may be allocate per workshop . please state the topic ( s ) to be address , the rationale for address it and the structure of the activity . submission should be in english and not longer than 4 page . please submit proposal as soon as possible to david farwell at the address above . proposal must be submit on or before april 3 , 1998 . for general conference information and further detail as it become available , visit : http : / / www . isus . edu / natural-language / amta98 . html - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - eduard hovy email : hovy @ isus . edu usc information science institute tel : 310-822 - 1511 ext 731 4676 admiralty way fax : 310-823 - 6714 marina del rey , ca 90292-6695 project homepage : http : / / www . isus . edu / natural-language / nlp-at - isus . html
