Subject: ws - - discourse relation - - coling / acl , august , montreal

call for papers cole / acl 98 workshop discourse relation and discourse marker august 15 , 1998 universite de montreal montreal / canada the notion of discourse relation have receive many interpretation , some of which be hardly compatible with one another . nonetheless , there be a consensus among researcher that intersegment relation hold between adjacent portion of a text and that these relation may be signal by linguistic means , include so-cal cue phrase , aspect and mood shift , theme inversion , and other marker . the workshop intend to bring together researcher work on discourse relation and discourse marker in different linguistic tradition and different nlp application . the particular focus of the workshop be the issue of discourse relation from the viewpoint of linguistic realization . specifically , contribution should address one or more of the follow question : * what be sound methodology for compare similar discourse marker ( contrastive study , distribution analysis , etc . ) ? * what be sound methodology for relate discourse relation with potential realization ? * are there discourse relation that be * alway * lexically signal ? are there any that be * never * lexically signal ? * what non-lexical ( i . e . , syntactic or prosodic ) means be use to signal a relation ? * in production , how do one decide whether to signal a relation at all ? * in production , how do one motivate a choice among candidate signal for a give relation ? * in production , how do the choice of signal interact with other decision ( in particular , those of linearize some tree or graph structure ) ? * in analysis , be it possible to reliably infer discourse relation from surface cue ? * in analysis , how can one disambiguate polysemous signal such as " and " , " since " ( temporal or causal ) etc . ? * what be useful lexical representation of discourse marker , for both analysis and production ? * what be useful representation of discourse relation ( and the entity they relate ) , such that they facilitate the realization decision ? what feature would one like to have handy in a representation so that choice can be make easily ? * are there significant difference between realization in speak and write language ? * how do individual language differ in term of any of the above issue ? organize committee the workshop be organize by manfr stede ( technical university , berlin ) leo wanner ( university of stuttgart ) eduard hovy ( isi / usc , marina del rey ) this call for papers as well as future information on the workshop can be find at http : / / www . c . tu-berlin . de / ~ marker / aclcolingw . html requirement for submission paper be invite that address any of the topic list above . maximum length be 8 page include figure and reference . please use a4 or us letter format and set margin so that the text lie within a rectangle of 6 . 5 x 9 inch ( 16 . 5 x 23 cm ) . use classical font such as time roman or computer modern , 11 to 12 point for text , 14 to 16 point for heading and title . latex user be encourage to use the style file provide by acl : http : / / coling-acl 98 . iro . umontreal . ca / colaclsub . sty . paper can be submit either electronically in postscript format , or as hardcopy . submission from north america should be send to : eduard hovy information science institute 4676 admiralty way marina del rey , ca 90292-6695 u . s . a . hovy @ isus . edu submission from elsewhere should be send to either of the follow : manfr stede leo wanner tu berlin computer science department kit project group intelligent system sekr . fr 6-10 university of stuttgart franklinstr . 28 / 29 breitwiesenstr . 20-22 d-10587 berlin d-70565 stuttgart germany germany stede @ c . tu-berlin . de wannerlo @ informatik . uni-stuttgart . de timetable deadline for electronic submission : april 7 , 1998 deadline for hardcopy submission : april 10 ( arrival date ) notification of acceptance : may 1 , 1998 final manuscript due : june 12 , 1998 program committee o sandra carberry ( u delaware ) o barbara dieugenio ( u pittsburgh ) o eduard hovy ( usc / isi ) o alistair knott ( u edinburgh ) o alex lascaride ( u edinburgh ) o owen rambow ( cogentex inc . ) o ted sander ( u utrecht ) o donium scott ( u brighton ) o wilbert spooren ( u tilburg ) o manfr stede ( tu berlin ) o keith vander linden ( calvin college ) o marilyn walker ( att laboratory ) o leo wanner ( u stuttgart ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - eduard hovy email : hovy @ isus . edu usc information science institute tel : 310-822 - 1511 ext 731 4676 admiralty way fax : 310-823 - 6714 marina del rey , ca 90292-6695 project homepage : http : / / www . isus . edu / natural-language / nlp-at - isus . html
