Subject: the evaluation of parsing systems

call for participation the evaluation of parsing systems granada , spain , 26 may 1998 this workshop be part of the first international conference on language resource and evaluation at the university of granada , may 26th - 30th 1998 ( see < http : / / cere . ugr . e / ~ rubio / elra . html > for detail and how to register ) . this workshop will provide a forum for researcher interest in the development and evaluation of natural language grammar and parse system , and in the creation of syntactically annotate reference corpus . organiser : john carroll , roberto basilus , nicoletta calzolarus , robert gaizauska , gregory grefenstette accepted papers a survey of parser evaluation method john carroll , ted briscoe university of sussex & university of cambridge , uk evaluate a robust parser for italian language roberto basilus , maria teresa pazienza , fabio massimo zanzotto universita ' dus roma tor verga , rome , italy evaluation of the syntactic analysis component of an information extraction system for german thierry declerck , judith klein , guenter neumann dfki , saarbruecken , germany chunk italian . linguistic and task-orient evaluation stefano federicus , simonetta montemagnus , vito pirrellus ilc-cnr pisa , italy modify exist annotate corpus for general comparative evaluation of parse rob gaizauska , mark hepple , chri huyck university of sheffield , uk dependency - base evaluation of minipar dekang lin university of manitoba , canada evaluate parse for speak language dialogue system wolfgang minker , lin chase limsi , france corpus - base parse prune sonja mueller - landmann ibm , heidelberg , germany the tosca parse system review nelleke oostdijk katholieke universiteit nijmegen , the netherland grammar & parser evaluation in the xtag project sriniva bangalore , anoop sarkar , christine doran , beth ann hockey at&t lab - research & ircs , university of pennsylvanium , usa workshop scope and aims the aim of this workshop be to provide a forum for discussion of evaluation method for parse system , and proposal for the development of syntactically annotate language resource . with increase attention to evaluation of component technology in language engineer , evaluation of parse system be rapidly become a key issue . numerous method have be propose and while one , the parseval / penn treebank scheme , have gain wide usage , this have to some extent be due to the absence of workable alternative rather than to whole-heart support . parseval / ptb evaluation have several limitation and drawback , include a commitment to a particular style of grammatical analysis , and oversensitivity to certain innocuous type of misanalysis while fail to penalise other common type of more serious mistake . also , the original publish description of the scheme - - and the evaluation software widely distribute as a follow-up to it - - be specific to the english language . it may be that there be currently no alternative more workable scheme or proposal , but this need to be more fully discuss : this workshop will provide an opportunity for such a debate . this workshop be particularly timely give the large number of cec language engineer project that involve parse in one form or another and which need to evaluate and share the result of their effort . parse be an essential part of many larger application , such as information extraction , which have gain in importance over the last few year . often in such system , the strength of the parser and grammar have a direct effect on the desire result , and thus achieve good result rest on be able to determine and improve weakness in the parser / grammar . without a reliable parser evaluation method this cannot be do effectively . a parse evaluation workshop be also appropriate at this time give the imminent creation of large-scale syntactically annotate resource for european language . contribution from those involve in such activity be welcome , so as to improve communication between the resource construction and the resource utilisation community . this should ensure that the resource construct be maximally useful to the general language engineer community . the workshop be jointly organise by the cec language engineer 1 project sparkle and ecran programme committee roberto basilus gregory grefenstette ted briscoe mark hepple nicoletta calzolarus tony mcenery john carroll maria teresa pazienza roberta catizone paolum velardus robert gaizauska yorick wilk
