Subject: minimize the effort for language resource acquisition

call for participation a workshop on minimize the effort for language resource acquisition granada , spain , 26 may , 1998 in conjunction with the first international conference on language resource and evaluation granada , spain , 28-30 , may 1998 ( see http : / / cere . ugr . e / ~ rubio / elra . html for detail and how to register ) the workshop will be devote to any technological and administrative facet of economy of acquisition effort . tentative program : ( svetlana sheremetyeva , organizer ) 0 . introduction . s . sheremetyeva full papers : 1 . reus swedish language process resource in svensk f . olsson , b . gamback and m . eriksson 2 . a cost - effective approach to multilingual lexicon acquisition e . viega , s . nirenburg , b . onyshkevych and v . raskin 3 . speed - up the build of new ontology use bilingual dictionary l . griot 4 . match resource acquisition work to need of an application s . nirenburg and r . zajac 5 . minimization strategy in neurotrun n . koncar , s . pawlowskus , d . sipka and v . sipka 6 . refine a bi - lingual mrd use a corpus base tool . j . cowie general discussion . workshop scope and aim - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - an apply nlp system must produce adequate result and must be make deployable within reasonable time . gather and acquire language resource to build an application system be very time-consume , and it be imperative to find way of speed up acquisition of high quality , useful static knowledge source such as a variety of grammar , lexicon , corpus , etc . viability of avoid massive resource acquisition , if possible , must also be carefully consider . resource acquisition should include method , base both on sound theoretical principle and practical experience , of decide , among other thing , on the amount of knowledge one * really * need for a give application . increase the size of knowledge source or their number and variety do not necessarily lead to a commensurate improvement of output quality in an application , though a correlation between the two certainly exist , but it definitely need to much increase cost . no matter how large the acquire resource be and how many of them have be acquire , there will alway remain a residue of language process problem which can be tackle only by forego the requirement of full automation and involve expensive semi-automatic or even manual acquisition . it become imperative , therefore , to assess when the static knowledge source acquisition be no longer profitable . thus , in a system for interactive author and automatic generation of patent claim text , the lexical knowledge base can be restrict to a lexicon of domain-relate verb mark for subcategorization ( as the nominal be provide interactively by the author ) . the technological issue to be discuss at the conference include , but are not limited to : - minimization of effort in acquire monolingual and multilingual text corpus ; - minimization of effort in acquire computational lexicon , include phonological , morphological , syntactic , semantic and other ( include application-specific ) information ; - minimization of effort in acquisition of resource for the support of corpus-base language engineer method ; - minimization of effort in acquire grammatical coverage of language and sublanguage ; - method of determine level of reusability of exist language resource ; - balance the need of the application and the grain size of language description ; - minimization of effort through balance automatic and interactive method of knowledge acquisition ; - evaluation of potential utility of resource to application ; program committee : svetlana sheremetyeva , nmsu crl , usa ( chair ) eduard hovy , usc isi , usa bernardo magninus , irst , italy sergeus nirenburg , nmsu crl , usa victor raskin , purdue university , usa frederique segonde , xerox research centre europe , france leo wanner , university of stuttgart , germany
