Subject: nwav ( e ) 27

initial call for paper nwav ( e ) 27 new way of analyze variation ( in english and other language ) nwav ( e ) 27 will be hold oct . 1 - 4 , 1998 , in athen , ga , at the georgium center for continue education of the university of georgium . plenary speaker will include william labov and salikoko mufwene , and the program will include both workshop and separate papers accord to standard practice for the meet . there will also be a poster session . in the two day precede nwav ( e ) 27 , september 29 and 30 , there will be a state-of - the-art conference on african american vernacular english , host by professor sonja lanehart , call " sociocultural and historical context of african american vernacular english " . this meet will feature invite presentation by 14 lead scholar in the field . abstract abstract be invite in all area of language variation study , both synchronic and diachronic , for both 20 - minute presentation and for poster . abstract will be referee anonymously . the abstract deadline be june 15 , 1998 ; notification be expect by august 1 . international participant who require certification of participation at an earlier date , to apply for travel fund , should contact the organizer as soon as possible . abstract should be submit in two part . the first part should include the full title and the abstract text of no more than 500 word include bibliography ( i . e . to fit on a single page in appropriate format ) . the author 's name ( s ) should not appear in the text of the abstract or title . the second part should give the full title of the submission and the author 's name ( s ) , with address , e-mail , fax , and phone number . please indicate whether you wish your abstract to be consider for presentation , for a poster , or for either . abstract may be submit by e-mail ( prefer ) as an ascii message contain both part of the abstract ( no attachment , please ) . alternatively , author may send a fully format hard copy of the abstract ( six copy of the abstract , and one copy of the separate identification page ) , plus a diskette contain the text file , to the organizer vium regular mail . send e-mail abstract to : nwave27 @ linguistics . uga . edu . send regular mail abstract to : bill kretzschmar , nwav ( e ) 27 , linguistic program , university of georgium , athen , ga 30602-6205 . if your mail service require a build name or street name , add " park hall , baldwin street " to the address . a web site for nwav ( e ) 27 have be establish at http : / / www . linguistics . uga . edu / nwave27 . additional information will post there as it become available .
