Subject: call : 6th manchester phonology meet

call for papers the north - west centre for linguistic and the university of toulouse - le mirail and pari x - nanterre announce the 6th manchester phonology meet university of manchester ( uk ) thursday 21 may to saturday 23 may 1998 we be please to announce our 6th manchester phonology meet . for the past five year , this meet have be one of the important venue for phonologist from all corner of the world . in an informal atmosphere , we discuss a wide range of topic , from the phonological description of language to the acquisition of phonology by child . we , therefore , invite papers from phonologist , phonetician , psychologist , sociolinguist , computational linguist - in short , anyone interest in explore current model of phonological theory and the ( cognitive , phonetic , sociological , computational . . . ) implication of such work . talk on a variety of language be welcome . the conference venue be the hulme hall lecture suite ( close to the university of manchester campus , which be locate only a couple of mile south of the city centre ) . we would ask participant to arrange their own accommodation , and detail of inexpensive local hotel ( room from gbp20 . 0 per night , incl . breakfast ) can be find on the accommodation page ( url : http : / / www . art . man . ac . uk / german / 6mfm / accomm . htm ) of the 6th manchester phonology meet web site . unfortunately , we be unable to offer crash space . prospective speaker should e-mail a title and a short abstract no later than monday 9 march 1998 to : wiebke . brockhaus @ man . ac . uk abstract should be no longer than ten line of text ( 12pt , 2 . 5 cm margin ) . we would prefer abstract to be include in normal e-mail message . if that be not possible , please attach your abstract as a word or wordperfect file . each speaker will be allocate a 45 - minute slot - 35 minute for the presentation and 10 minute for discussion . if you be unable to submit your abstract by e-mail , please post or fax it to : dr wiebke brockhaus department of german [ not linguistic , please note ! ] university of manchester oxford road manchester m13 9pl uk fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 161 275 3031 all abstract will be review by member of the organise committee , but we reserve the right to set up a panel for anonymous review , should the number of abstract receive make this necessary . there be much more information about the 6th manchester phonology meet available on our web page ( url of the call for papers , which provide link to the other meet page and to several other : http : / / www . art . man . ac . uk / german / 6mfm / call . htm ) . if there be anything else you need to know , please contact wiebke brockhaus at the address give above ( tel . + 44 ( 0 ) 161 275 3180 ) or by e-mail . best wish , the organiser : wiebke brockhaus ( university of manchester ) jacque durand ( universite de toulouse - le mirail ) bernard lak ( universite pari x - nanterre ) nigel vincent ( university of manchester )
