Subject: " creat sense : text and reality "

* * * call for papers * * * creating sense texts and realities organize by the department of english language & literature national university of singapore with cambridge university press and material development association ( matsda ) 7 - 9 september , 1998 venue : orchard hotel , singapore keynote presenter : david nunan ( university of hong kong ) liz hamp - lyon ( hong kong polytechnic university ) mario rinvolucrus ( pilgrim , canterbury ) jane arnold ( university of seville ) the conference organiser invite papers , both theoretical and practical , that explore and characterise some of the main way in which language be use to create " sense " in contemporary life . we encourage papers that present recent development and address significant theoretical issue in study of language and discourse , and that explore idea and application in the broad domain of language education and media study . some possible area of focus ( the list be not mean to be exclusive ) include the development of creative think and critical awareness , current issue in the teach and assessment of listen , speak , read and write , relation between language , literacy and curriculum " content " , the principle development and evaluation of educational material and activity , and the impact of different media ( newspaper , television , computer and the internet ) on contemporary idea about literacy , education and citizenship . paper from invite keynote speaker will last for 60 minute . parallel papers will last for 40 minute . speaker in parallel session be ask to limit their presentation time to 30 minute , leave 10 minute for discussion of their paper . paper will normally be present in the morn session of the conference . intend paper presenter who be interest in develop idea in afternoon workshop session be especially encourage to submit their proposal . * * * call for workshop * * * the organiser invite proposal for workshop session from intend conference participant ( not only paper presenter ) who be will to take on the role of workshop leader . parallel workshop will be hold as afternoon session , each last 3 hour , and some of these workshop will extend over more than one afternoon . the main aim of workshop at this conference be to provide participant with opportunity to become actively involve in develop , adapt or evaluate educational material in language education and media study , along line that each workshop leader will first have relate to some of the major theoretical issue arise from the conference theme . intend workshop leader who can make link between workshop activity and paper presentation at the conference be especially encourage to submit their proposal . the organiser assume that each workshop will comprise approximately thirty participant , and will be arrange such that at least 2 hour out of 3 will be spend by workshop participant work in pair or group , as the workshop leader arrange , on task correspond to the workshop theme . please send abstract of about 200 word to the programme committee , in accordance with the guideline that follow . write or ( preferably ) e-mail to : programme committee ( attention : d . allison ) " creat sense " conference department of english language & literature national university of singapore 10 kent ridge crescent singapore 119260 departmental fax : ( 65 ) - 7732981 e - mail : ellconlk @ nus . edu . sg guideline for submission : your abstract must specify the category ( paper or workshop ) of the propose presentation . please submit three anonymous copy of the abstract ( include the title of your paper or workshop ) for review purpose , plus a fourth copy that include the author 's name and affiliation . please also include a notecard ( size 3 " by 5 " ) , state author 's name , affiliation , title of paper or workshop , contact telephone and fax number , e-mail address , and postal address . paper presenter be ask to specify any special requirement for their presentation . ( all room will have overhead projector . ) workshop presenter be ask to specify the intend length of the workshop ( a workshop may run for 3 , 6 or 9 hour ) and to specify any special requirement for their workshop session . deadline for abstract : 15 may 1998 reply will be send by end may 1998 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - conference theme - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - the focus of this conference will be on notion of " create " or " make " sense , both in education and more widely throughout society . " make sense " sound reassuringly uncontroversial , and it have take the insight of jerome bruner in the 1960 , and of michael halliday and his associate in recent year , to bring out the richness of mean that this expression can carry . it be now widely accept that sense be not simply " there " in the world , wait to be discover and document , but that it be actually create by human being in society . the idea that " reality " be " create " in language also imply that there must be more than one reality , and that a number of reality can be articulate and compare . these possibility carry major implication for language education , social identity and participation - - - or , less reassuringly , for educational and social exclusion . the thematic emphasis of this conference on " create sense " , then , include the essential notion that any single form of sense can also be question and " unmake " , and that alternative kind of sense can be remake or " re-creat " through text . make , unmake and remake meaning be fundamental aspect of social and educational experience , from infancy through primary and secondary school year and beyond , continue into adulthood and maturity . much education have to do with learn to think , talk and write about thing in way that differ from the initial " commonsense " knowledge or belief that child have already acquire in their community . to bring this about without undermine what be valid and value in child 's life be an enormously challenge and problematic social and cultural activity . that it be also a necessary one can be argue both in term of mainstream rationality ( the development of scientific think be a prime example here ) and of critical awareness , which include learn to deconstruct powerful people 's account of how the world be and ought to be , and to propose alternative account . full participation in social and political life be only possible when people have learn , as ronald carter have put it , how to " see through language " . these concern over create , question and re-creat sense be explore in this conference in relation to two domain , those of language education and media study . in the context of formal education , learner have both to discern mean in what be offer to them and actively to make " their own " meaning as they interpret and analyse experience from a variety of perspective which may be propose to them or discover by them . all this raise important issue of participation and exclusion relate to learner ' personal and social exploration of language , and the way in which these two mode of exploration may be relate . the conference will pursue these concern in the broad context of language education as its first domain . the second conference domain be that of media study , with particular attention to media discourse and reality construction . the conference seek to bring to light some of the way in which reality , like story , be invent , tell , represent and mediate through available technology . diverse experience and account of reality be construct through the interplay of language and image . these can , for instance , be present as fantasy , fictional exploration of experience , docu-drama or documentary coverage of event , among other thing . the impact of such account on audience and " the public " depend on many social , cultural and educational factor , but the need for modern citizen to be able to make their own sense of account that be offer to them , and also to offer account of their own , increasingly appear fundamental to effective social participation as well as to social critique . the conference look to stimulate debate that be ground in - - - or informedly set against - - - current theory , practice and finding of teach and research community in language and communication study . another main aim be to suggest guideline for inform , responsible and reflective practice in the domain of language education and mediaoa study . a theme of particular interest , to be develop especially in workshop mode , be that of material write for educational purpose in both conference domain .
