Subject: paulston and tucker : early day of sociolinguistic

the early day of sociolinguistic : memory and reflection ( 1997 ) christina bratt paulston and g . richard tucker ( ed . ) dalla , tx : summer institute of linguistic . 162 page , $ 37 ( paper ) . review by joyce milambile at some point in the 1960 's , along with social and political upheaval , landmark court decision in education and a host of other social event , the discipline of sociolinguistic emerge . scholar from various other discipline and place have of course , be do sociolinguistic research for some time , but it be only in that decade that a group of people start systematically call it sociolinguistic . why do this happen and who be responsible for the come together of a talent group of people who often do not ( and to some extent still do n't ) consider themselve to be a cohesive group ? some answer to these question can be find in this new volume edit by christina bratt paulston and g . richard tucker . the book be sub-title " memory and reflection , " which describe very well the tone of the more than 30 contribution to this book . the contribution range from the editor ' introduction and epilogue , personal account from the practitioner and supporter of early sociolinguistic research , and short essay in memory of several important figure in the field . most of the contribution be reflection by a wide range of scholar who be instrumental in the launch of sociolinguistic . the line-up of these early participant in the enterprise of sociolinguistic be impressive ( include joshua fishman , susan ervin - tripp , wallace lambert , dell hyme , charle ferguson and other ) , and create high expectation on the part of the reader from the outset . these expectation be , for the most part meet , with the reader come away with a real sense of the zeitgeist which allow sociolinguistic to blossom . the book be base on the premise that if you want to find out what a certain historical period be like , you talk to the the people who be there . the editor provide the contributor with a list of 18 question , all of which be list in the introduction of the early day of sociolinguistic ( tedos ) . the main group of contributor , those that the book call " pioneer " in sociolinguistic , come from a wide variety of discipline and country ( although the majority be from north america ) . the method by which the editor choose to elicit these memory have many advantage . the range of question allow the contributor to choose which aspect of the begin of sociolinguistic they wish ( or be able ) to talk about . most of the question , in fact , be useful and important for the task at hand . one of these key question be : " please characterize for us the intellectual , social and economic ' climate ' of the time . . . " ( pp 6 ) . this question receive a great deal of attention from the contributor , and take together their response convince the reader that the 1960 's be an excite time to be do and hear about research on language and its social context . another question ask the writer to identify " a critical milestone - - a conference , a publication , an event . . . that mark for you the begin of sociolinguistic " ( page 6 ) . many of the contributor identify as milestone the conference at the university of californium at lo angele ( ucla ) on sociolinguistic in 1964 which later result in william bright 's edit volume of the proceedings . many of them also mention the linguistic society of america 's ( lsa ) summer seminar that same year in bloomington , indiana . another frequently mention milestone be the creation of the committee on sociolinguistic of the social science research council ( ssrc ) , also in 1964 . however , an overview of the article that be write for this book ( there be also a couple of reprint article ) reveal that the author focus only on a handful of the question that the editor say they may consider . some , such as the two mention above , provide fascinate information about the people and event at that time . other question , for example the one that ask who receive the first doctorate in sociolinguistic , seem to be less germane to the purpose of the book and be not answer ( at least not definitively ) by many of the contribute author . the article in tedos vary greatly in term of length and personal involvement of the author with the subject . susan ervin tripp 's article ( the development of sociolinguistic ) deal mostly with the history of organization that be crucial to the early development of sociolinguistic , in particular the sociolinguistic committee at the social science research council ( ssrc ) . basil bernstein include his remembrance of the beginning of the discipline and his part in the difference / deficit debate , which he pointedly state " be of little theoretical significance and , indeed , obscure more than it reveal " ( page 47 ) . as an appendix to his article , bernstein add a point-by - point critique of william labov 's paper , " the logic of non - standard english . " dell hyme credit noam chomsky with the development of the field of sociolinguistic " because of his statement in aspect of the theory of syntax . . . which define the goal of linguistic theory in such a way as to eliminate people and use ( page 122 ) . these contribution give the reader important insight into what the contributor be do and think about over 30 year ago , as well as how they see that involvement today . not all of the contributor be positive about what be happen in sociolinguistic at the time , which add balance and a touch of reality to the book . an interest feature of tedos be the inclusion of some of the institutional actor in the development of sociolinguistic . without adequate fund , research and interaction among scholar and practitioner happen haphazardly or not at all , and institution like the ford foundation , the u . s . department of education , the center for apply linguistic and the summer institute of linguistic be all key player in the early era of sociolinguistic . dick thompson of the department of education add his own voice to the group , say that the launch of sputnik be , for him , " the begin of ' modern sociolinguistic ' " in that fund for education and language study skyrocket ( pun intend ) and thus deeply impact educational attitude and project . another important feature of this volume be the effort take by the editor to include as diverse a group as possible , especially scholar who represent third world country . bonifacio sibayan talk about the serious problem of fund in country like his philippine , and how collaboration with foreign institution and researcher allow some third world country to better investigate language issue and problem within their own border . e . annamalaus discuss the development of sociolinguistic in indium , and how linguistic research do in indium ( both by indigenous and outside researcher ) have contribute to a greater understand of sociolinguistic phenomenon . the editor also do a fine job of introduce their book and provide final comment on its contents . taken together , these chapter function as conceptual bookend . bratt paulston 's introduction provide explanation for their rationale and choice of contributor , as well as what the contributor be ask to address , and tucker 's epilogue sum up the major theme that emerge . these five theme be : the interdisciplinary nature of the field and the event that launch it ; the social issue that spark the emergence of socio - linguistics as a discipline of study ; the importance of a number of key individual ; the difference between the north american / european perspective and that of researcher from develop country ; and the important role of a few fund organization in support sociolinguistic research and dialogue . the book be generally well edit with few error . the bibliography be valuable in that it combine the reference from all of the contribute article into one collective group of book and article . the one disadvantage to this be that the reference have come from scholar work in different field and thus use different bibliographic style . a result be that some of the first name be abbreviate while other be write use the full name . this be minor if your discipline abbreviate first name , but be more of a problem if you want to cite or look up a reference and do not have the full first name . there be also a couple of typographical error : for example , on page 302 in an article commemorate the work of heinz kloss , the term " abstand " be misspell ( although it be spell correctly elsewhere in the article ) , and on page 217 the biographical note on sibayan should read that he be on the " komisyon sa wikang filipino . " as a final note , the publisher of tedos say that the audience of the book should include people in the field represent by the contributor ( such as sociolinguist , social psychologist , linguistic anthropologist and apply linguist in general ( back cover ) . they also speculate that historian of science will be interest in read about the evolution of the discipline of sociolinguistic as an academic discipline which have grow over the decade in importance and visibility . a problem with this be that researcher and practitioner who be involve with sociolinguistic issue may not be interest in how the field come about unless this history be somehow explicitly fold into their own discipline . i would like to see tedos on the syllabus for a history of linguistic course , for example , but be not optimistic that that it would generally be accept as such . i do believe , however , that this be an important book for anyone interest in the people and institution that be responsible for the existence and growth of sociolinguistic . reference : bright , william , ed . 1966 . sociolinguistic : proceeding of the ucla sociolinguistic conference , 1964 . janua linguarum , series major 20 . the hague : mouton . chomsky , noam . 1965 . aspect of the theory of syntax . cambridge , ma : mit press . labov , william . 1970 . the logic of non-standard english . proceeding of the georgetown university round table on language and linguistic , 1969 . washington , d . c . : georgetown university press .
