Subject: cfp : language resource for european minority language

workshop on language resource for european minority language - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - granada , spain - may 27 1998 ( morn ) call for papers this workshop will be hold in conjunction with the international conference on language resource and evaluation ( lrec ) , granada , spain : may 28-30 , 1998 . the workshop will provide a forum for researcher work on the development of speech and language resource for the indigenous minority language of europe . workshop scope and aims - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - the minority or " lesser use " language of europe ( e . g . basque , welsh , breton ) be under increase pressure from the major language . some of them ( e . g . gaelic ) be become endanger , but other ( e . g . catalan ) be in a stronger position , with a certain amount of official recognition and fund . however , the situation with regard to language resource be fragment and disorganise . some minority language have be adequately research linguistically , but most have not , and the vast majority do not yet possess basic speech and language resource ( such as text and speech corpus ) which be sufficient to permit commercial development of product . if this situation be to continue , the minority language of europe would fall a long way behind the major language , as regards the availability of commercial speech and language product . this in turn will accelerate the decline of those language that be already struggle to survive , as speaker be force to use the majority language for interaction with these product . to break this vicious circle , it be important to encourage the development of basic language resource . the workshop be a very small first step toward encourage the development of such resource . the aim be to share information , so that isolate researcher will not need to start from nothing . an important aspect will be the form of personal contact , which at present do not exist . the aim be to make it easier for isolate researcher with little fund and no exist corpus to begin develop a usuable speech or text database . there will be a balance between presentation of exist language resource , and more general presentation design to give background information . technical area cover will include : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - presentation of exist speech and text database for minority language , with particular emphasis on their design and their annotation . presentation of exist lexicon for minority language , with particular emphasis on fast production method . encouragement of standardisation , use the recommendation formulate by the eagles work group . presentation of the eu 's policy toward minority language , and the situation of minority language in europe . paper be invite that will describe exist speech and language resource for minority language ( speech database , text database , and lexicon ) , also papers base on the analysis of these resource . presentation will last 20 minute each . all presentation will be give in english , since it cannot be assume that each listener will speak all the minority language discuss . organizer : briony william university of edinburgh , scotland , uk climent nadeu universitat politecnica de catalunya , catalunya , spain alex monaghan dublin city university , ireland paper submission - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - paper should not exceed 4000 word or 10 page . they can be submit in one of two way : hard copy or electronic submission . they should be in a4 size and in english . a ) hard copy : three hard copy should be send to : dr . briony william cstr 80 south bridge edinburgh eh1 1hn scotland , uk please also send an email to briony william ( briony @ cstr . ed . ac . uk ) inform her of the hard copy submission . this be in case the hard copy do not reach its destination . this email should contain the information specify in the section below . b ) electronic submission : electronic submission may be in self-contain latex , postcript or ms - word format . submission should be send to briony @ cstr . ed . ac . uk . an electronic submission should be accompany by a plain ascius text email message give the follow detail : # name : name of first author # title : title of the paper # pages : number of page # note : any relevant instruction about the format etc . # abstr : abstract of the paper # email : email address of the first author # addr : postal address of the first author # tel : telephone number of the first author # fax : fax number of the first author important dates paper submission deadline february 27 paper notification march 27 camera - ready papers due april 22 workshop may 26 conference information - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - general information about the main conference be at : http : / / www . icp . inpg . fr / elra / conflre . html specific query about the conference should be direct to : lrec secretariat facultad de traduccion e interpretacion dpto . de traduccion e interpretacion c / puentezuela , 55 18002 granada , spain tel : + 34 58 24 41 0 - fax : + 34 58 24 41 4 reli98 @ goliat . ugr . e - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
