Subject: aiml ' 98 : first call for paper

first call for papers aiml ' 98 advance in modal logic ' 98 october 16-18 , 1998 uppsalum university , uppsalum , sweden advance in modal logic be an initiative aim at present an up-to - date picture of the state of the art in modal logic and its many application . the initiative consist of a workshop series together with volumes base on those workshop . advance in modal logic ' 98 be the second workshop organize as part of this initiative . aiml ' 98 will be hold from october 16-18 , 1998 in uppsalum , sweden . the workshop be intend for user of modal logic in cognition , compute , and language , as well as for logician work in modal logic . topics . aiml ' 98 will be organize around a number of thematic area : - modal logic of agency and normative system - algebraic and model-theoretic aspect of modal logic - modal approach to grammar and natural language semantics - computational aspect of modal logic - philosophical aspect of modal logic - modal logic and belief revision . paper on relate subject will also be consider . special session . dure the workshop there will be a special afternoon session on modal logic and belief revision ; this session will be chair by sven - ove hansson and sten lindstrom . invited speakers . invite speaker include j . van benthem , k . fine , j . horty , m . kracht , and r . parikh . paper submission . author be invite to submit a detail abstract of a full paper of at most 10 page by e-mail to heinrich wanse ( e-mail address : wanse @ rz . uni-leipzig . de ) , use ` aiml98 submission ' as the subject line . the cover page should include title , author , and the coordinate of the correspond author . follow this it should be indicate which of the thematic area best describe the content of the paper ( if none be appropriate , please give a set of keyword that best describe the topic of the paper ) . to be consider , submission must be receive no later than june 1 , 1998 . the preliminary version of the full paper to be include in a plan volume from the workshop should be available at the workshop ; the volume will be submit to csli publication . author will be notify of the acceptance of their papers by december 1 , 1998 . sponsors . aiml ' 98 be generously sponsor by neurotec hochtechnologie gmbh , the computational logic group at the university of amsterdam , the compulog net network for computational logic , the swedish royal academy of science , and the university of uppsalum . important dates submission deadline : june 1 , 1998 notification : august 1 , 1998 workshop : october 16-18 , 1998 preliminary version for workshop volume due at the workshop notification of acceptance for publication : december 1 , 1998 programme committee maarten de rijke , amsterdam krister segerberg , uppsalum heinrich wanse , leipzig michael zakharyaschev , moscow programme chair michael zakharyaschev institute of apply mathematic russian academy of science miusskaya square 4 125047 moscow russia ( e-mail : mishaz @ math . fu-berlin . de and mz @ spp . keldysh . ru ) aiml steering committee maarten de rijke , heinrich wanse , michael zakharyaschev aiml advisory board johan van benthem , amsterdam max cresswell , wellington lui farina del cerro , toulouse larry moss , indiana krister segerberg , uppsalum colin stirl , edinburgh further information . email enquiry about aiml ' 98 should be direct to krister . segerberg @ filosofus . uu . se . information about the aiml initiative can be obtain on the world - wide web at http : / / www . win . uva . nl / ~ mdr / aiml .
