Subject: discourse across language and culture

the 24th university of wisconsin-milwaukee linguistics symposium discourse across languages and cultures september 10 - 12 , 1998 our 24th symposium will be what we believe to be one of the first conference to bring together scholar from field such as contrastive rhetoric , rhetorical typology , translation studies , and discourse analysis . although these scholar work in relate field , little opportunity have exist for interaction among them . the goal of this symposium be to provide such an opportunity and to facilitate the share of knowledge about cross-cultural and cross-linguistic pattern in discourse , whether that discourse be speak or write . feature speaker include : ruth berman ( tel - aviv university ) wallace chafe ( university of californium - santa barbara ) susanna cumm ( university of californium - santa barbara ) william eggington ( brigham young university ) robert longacre ( university of texa at arlington ) carol lynn moder ( oklahoma state university ) ronald scollon ( georgetown university ) dan i . slobin ( university of californium - berkeley ) sonja tirkonnen - condit ( university of joensuu ) all session will be hold on our campus in the university of wisconsin - milwaukee student union . the first plenary session be schedule to begin thursday afternoon . a full program will be provide at a later date . registration : pre - registration fee be $ 20 for student , $ 45 for regular registration . on - site registration fee be $ 25 for student , $ 50 for regular . all pre-registration form must be accompany by a check or money order in u . s . dollar and receive by august 1 , 1998 . ( we cannot , unfortunately , accept credit card . ) if you wish to pre-register , please send the follow information to the address below . name address affiliation email address cassandra stephen uwm linguistic symposium dept . of english university of wisconsin - milwaukee milwaukee , wi 53201-0413 accommodations : block of room have be reserve at two hotel near uwm . both have special rate for the symposium , but require mention of the uwm linguistic symposium , and must be secure by credit card , or one-night 's stay in advance . some van service from the hotel will be available . the park east hotel ( $ 63 for single , $ 73 for double , until aug . 18 ) 916 e . state st . milwaukee , wi 53202 phone : 1-800 - 328-7275 the astor hotel ( $ 54 for single , $ 59 for double , until aug . 9 ) 924 e . juneau ave . milwaukee , wi 53202 phone : 1-800 - 558-0200 we may have a limit amount of " crash space " available . if you be interest , please indicate this on your pre-registration letter . we cannot , however , guarantee such space . for additional information , or question , contact mike darnell at darnell @ csd . uwm . edu
