Subject: sle conference programme

societas linguistica europaea xxxist annual meeting st andrews , 26-30 august 1998 second circular enclose be the provisional programme of the xxxist annual meet of the societa linguistica europaea , to be hold in st andrew , scotland , on 26-30 august 1998 , under the general theme : langue and parole in synchronic and diachronic perspective . some of the section papers list be dependent on fund become available . if you have submit an abstract you will also find enclose a slip give the decision of the selection committee . the deadline for registration be 30 april 1998 . a registration form be send out with the first circular . paper will be give in the quadrangle of st salvator 's college , on north street . participant will be accommodate in st salvator 's hall of residence and in new hall . those stay at new hall will have breakfast in new hall but lunch and dinner in st salvator 's hall of residence . there will be a book exhibition . registration will take place in st salvator 's hall of residence from 14 . 00-18 . 0 on wednesday 26 august . member stay at new hall may check in to their accommodation first - between 14 . 0 and 22 . 0 - and then go to registration ( from new hall to st salvator 's be a pleasant 15 min . walk ) . there will be a wine reception , host by the department of german , in st salvator 's hall of residence from 18 . 0 to 19 . 0 . dinner will be at 19 . 0 in st salvator 's hall of residence for all residential participant , i . e . both for those stay at st salvator 's and those stay at new hall . registration will continue from 18 . 00-22 . 0 , and will continue again on thursday 27 august from 8 . 00-11 . 0 . the address of the two hall of residence be as follow : st salvator 's hall , north street , st andrew , fife ky16 9az new hall , north haugh , st andrew , fife ky16 9xw travel to st andrew air : the nearest airport be edinburgh . take the airport bus to the main railway station , waverley station , which take approx . 20 min . and cost 3 . 50 . or take a taxi , which will cost approx . 14 . then take the train to leuchar railway station , which be on the london ( king 's cross ) - edinburgh - aberdeen main line . train run between about 7 . 0 and 23 . 0 . the journey take approx . 1 hr . and cost approx . 13 return . from leuchar take the bus ( 95 , x59 , x60 , direction leven or edinburgh ) to st andrew bus station ; the journey take 10 min . and cost 1 . 20 ; bus run every 1 / 2 hour between about 7 . 0 and midnight . to walk from the bus station to both hall of residence take about 5 min . or else from leuchar take a taxi , which will cost about 8 . 0 ; there be usually taxi to meet every train . rail : the nearest railway station be leuchar ( 4 mile away ) , on the london ( king 's cross ) - edinburgh - aberdeen main line . see above under air . road : the main route to st andrew by road from the south be vium the forth road bridge . continue along the m90 motorway , turn off on the a91 to st andrew . a third circular with update programme and map of st andrew will be send out at the end of july to all those register for the conference . the conference 's home page contain link to the home page of st andrew , the scottish tourist board , and edinburgh international festival . local organiser : dr christopher beedham dr isabel forb postal , e-mail , fax , and internet address : sle 1998 , department of german , school of modern language , the university , st andrew , fife ky16 9ph , scotland / uk e-mail : cb1 @ st-and . ac . uk fax : ( 732 ) 463677 home page : http : / / www . st-and . ac . uk / academic / modlang / sle98 / sle98 . html 20 march 1998 enc . : provisional programme decision slip ( if you have submit an abstract ) xxxist annual meeting of the societas linguistica europaea university of st andrews , scotland , 26-30 august 1998 provisional programme presidential address rissanen , mattus ( helsinkus ) : [ title to be announce ] plenary speaker harweg , roland ( bochum ) : [ title to be announce ] koerner , e . f . k . ( ottawa ) : three saussure - one 's tructuraliste avant la lettre ' robins , r . h . ( london ) : possible landmark in twentieth century linguistics tobin , yishaus ( be ' er sheva , israel ) : one size do not fit all : a semantic analysis of " small / large " v . " little / big " workshop spoken v . write language : their structural and typological difference . organise by werner abraham ( groningen ) modality in generative grammar . organise by sjef barbiers ( leiden ) , frit beukema ( leiden ) , olga tomic ( novus sad ) , milena sheppard ( ljubljana ) , marija golden ( ljubljana ) grammatical category . organise by kazimierz a . sroka ( gdan ( sk ) section papers andersson , sven - gunnar ( goteborg ) : register - motivate variation of tense and mood in german final clause introduce by damit ash , sharon ( pennsylvanium ) : weaken distinction in support of dialect difference askedal , john ole ( oslo ) : grammaticalization and the german " recipient passive " with bekomman / erhalten / kriegen bergs , alexander ( dusseldorf ) : social network in pre - 1500 britain : problem , perspective , example bednarikova , bozena ( palacky , czech republic ) : system description or systematic prescription ? bermel , neil ( sheffield ) : can one language have two langue ? claim about literary and common czech burgarski , ranko ( belgrade ) : language and war in yugoslavium buniyatova , isabellum ( kiev ) : on the history of non - finite clause in english and other language darski , jozef ( poznan ( ) : was ist stamm ? diewald , gabriele ( erlangen ) : the integration of the german modal into the paradigm of verbal mood dobrovol ' skij , dmitrij ( moscow ) : on cross-linguistic equivalence of idiom donadze , natalium ( moscow ) : type of semantic transformation in atla linguarum europa motivation map dorodnych , anatolij ( kharkov & poznan ( ) : mentality through language : contrast associative network drubig , h . bernhard ( tubingen ) : some general characteristic of morphosyntactic focus mark farkas , judit & veronika kniezsa ( budapest ) : mediaeval street-name of the city york and lincoln : grammar and orthography fatima , eloeva ( st petersburg ) : pontic dialect : interference on langue and parole level ( synchronic and diachronic perspective ) fava , elisabetta ( padova ) : the relevance of some methodological distinction in consider the role of variation in the illocutionary force device fenk , august , ( klagenfurt ) : picture language - just a metaphor ? fenk-oczlon , gertraud ( klagenfurt ) : german , russian , turkish - a typological comparison forbes , isabel & gabor kiss ( st andrew & budapest ) : colour categorization and colour name in french and hungarian gamkrelidze , thoma v . ( tbilisus ) : " langue " and " parole " in proto - indo - european reconstruction gruntfest , yaakov ( haifa ) : accusativus / ablativus limitationi in transformational interpretation guermanova , natalium ( moscow ) : perception of native language : cultural-value v communicative perspective haftka , brigitta ( potsdam ) : gradadverbiale und subjektbezogene adverbiale im vorfeldtest hajicova , eva ( prague ) : contextual boundness in language system and context dependency in communication hartmann , ralph a . ( st andrew ) : gegen eine lehrbuch - interpretation von saussure langage , langue und parole - ein merkzettel hundsnurscher , franz ( mfcnster ) : phraseologische paarformeln jurewicz , magdalena ( poznan ( ) : interpret conversation between pole and german kim , a . ( tomsk ) : on the problem of linguistic universal : semantic cult paradigm kleiner , yurus ( st petersburg ) : epic formulum : langue and parole klimonow , wladimir ( berlin ) : einfluss der aspekte auf die umgestaltung der futurparadigman im russischen komarnitska , larisa ( chernivtsy , ukraine ) : a quantitative approach to investigate semantically relate word kotin , mikhail l . ( moscow ) : possessive construction and the auxiliarization of haben in german kotorova , elizaveta ( tomsk ) : the main factor to identify the equivalent relation in langue and parole krier , fernande ( renn ) : approach to linguistic dynamic : aspect of standard german in an autobiography of 1905 nedzad , leko ( sarajevo & oslo ) : quantify phrase in russian and bosnian : similarity and difference levitsky , v . , v . drebet , b . ginka , n . kapatruk , j . kiyko , s . kiyko , a . oguy ( chernivtsy , ukraine ) : the problem of polysemy under synchronic , diachronic and panchronic aspect malikouti-drachman , angelikus ( salzburg & cyprus ) : on the formation of hypocoristic in modern greek marle , jaap van ( amsterdam ) : langue and parole in morphological productivity matsumori , akiko ( tokyo ) : reconstruction of the proto - accent - system for mainland japanese dialect mautner , gerlinde ( vienna ) : globalisation . review a megatrend from the perspective of linguistic and elt musolff , andrea ( durham ) : dinosaur , metaphor and dangerous theory nagle , stephen j . & sara l . sanders ( south carolina ) : redundant complementation in english : pseudo - resumptive that naiditch , larissa ( jerusalem ) : associative and semantic word field in bilingual ogourechnikova , natalium ( moscow ) : old icelandic pronominal system in the mythological song of the edda oguy , a . ( chernivtsy , ukraine ) : polysemy in the panchrony and its regular character omdal , helge ( kristiansand , norway ) : implementation of language norm in norway - success or confusion ? osipova , o . ( tomsk ) : the mystery of consonantal nominal stem-build marker in ancient germanic paducheva , elena v . ( moscow ) : on dynamic approach to systematic polysemy panitz , florian ( oldenburg ) : iterative and habitual perspectivization in text : a note on the competence - performance interface pantaleo , nicolum ( barus , italy ) : constraint and ecart ( langue and parole ) in pre - early modern english translational practice : the vocabulary of ' folly ' in william barclay 's the ship of fool petric , teodor ( maribor , slovenium ) : zum syntaktischen verhalten von funktionsverbgefugen in dialogferneren textsorten platzer , han ( vienna ) : the loss of oe / me object ellipsis poupynin , yourus ( st petersburg ) : aspect , voice and deixi in russian ratkeviciute-miseviciene , joana ( kauna , lithuanium ) : speechology : theory and practice reiter , norbert ( berlin ) : vom nutzen der kombinationskarte und ihrer problematik schellinger , wolfgang ( konstanz ) : the malto noun phrase meet typology : dravidian suffixaufnahme and aufnahme universal schick , ivanka p . ( potsdam ) : double clitic and information - structure in modern bulgarian schwarzwald , ora rodrigue ( ramat - gan , israel ) : the adjectival suffix - i in hebrew seuren , pieter a . m . ( nijmegen ) : eubulide as a 20th century semanticist sevic , radmilum b . ( novus sad ) : early collection of private document : the miss link in the diachronic corpus ? sgall , petr ( prague ) : on the interface between langue and parole shimomiya , tadao ( tokyo ) : langue and parole in interdependence skrzypiec , andrzej m . ( wroclaw ) : language and cultural identity in diachronic perspective souleimanova , olga ( moscow ) : the case for dative case sovran , tamar ( tel aviv ) : vagueness as a challenge for natural language semantics tarnyikova , jarmilum ( palacky , czech republic ) : discourse perspective on syntax : the case of sentence adverbial terzan-kopecky , carman ( maribor , slovenium ) : die sprachokonomie und der konstruktionelle ikonismus durch da prisma de translatorischen handeln valentin , paul ( pari ) : nebensatze al c4udferungen : parole gegen langue ? vezzosi , letizium & dieter stein ( florence & dusseldorf ) : restitutive process in linguistic change vuckovic , petar ( belgrade ) : on cognitive independence of mean and form of noun wasik , zdzislaw ( wroclaw ) : parole and the bilateral sign : between platonism and cartesianism in ferdinand de saussure 's cours de linguistique generale yariv-laor , lihus ( jerusalem ) : note on the translation of the hebrew bible into chinese : a cross - cultural view zabotkina , vera ( kaliningrad ) : new euphemism in english : pragmatic approach
