Subject: iascl congress

international congress for the study of child language 12-16 july 1999 university of the basque country san sebastian - donostium basque country - spain call por papers special emphasis topic : child language acquisicion : educational and crosslinguistic perspective paper in the follow area will be include : bilingualism and second language acquisition discourse language disorder lexicon literacy metalinguistic awareness morphology parent - child communication phonology pragmatic pre - linguistic communication sign language speech perception and production syntax paper on the acquisition of minority language be particularly welcome congress language presentation to be make in basque , english , french and spanish . simultaneous translation into english will be provide for the plenary session but only papers read in basque will be translate into english . local committee : itziar idiazabal , jasone cenoz , marma josus ezeizabarrena , margareta almgren ( university of the basque country ) ; andonus barrena ( university of salamanca ) e - mail : fvcongre @ vh . ehu . e http : / / www . vc . ehu . e / iascl99 / iascl . htm plenary speakers dorothy bishop , university of cambridge jean paul bronckart , university of geneva itziar idiazabal , university of the basque country lui enrique lspez , san simon university brian macwhinney , carnegie mellon university jurgen meisel , university of hamburg miquel siguan , university of barcelona papers , posters and symposia the organizer welcome submission for 20 minute paper presentation , poster and symposium . symposium be expect to last two hour ( include discussion ) and involve at least three and at most six participant ( include the organizer ) . abstracts abstract for papers , poster and symposium should be submit in the follow format : ( 1 ) for papers and poster five copy of an anonymous abstract ( 200-300 word ) with title , and the area of study in the upper right hand corner for symposium : five copy of an anonymous abstract ( up to 1000 word ) describe briefly each contribution as well as the relation among the individual presentation , with title and the area of study in the upper right hand corner . ( 2 ) all abstract should include an english translation . ( 3 ) one 10 x 15 cm ( 4 x 6 inch ) card state : ( i ) title , ( ius ) topic area , ( iius ) audiovisual / computer request , and ( iv ) for each author : a . full name and affiliation b . current address c . e - mail address d . fax number abstract submit should represent unpublish work . all submission will be peer-review anonimously by member of the scientific committee . notification of acceptance or rejection will be send out by december 1998 ( 4 ) a pc compatible diskette of the abstract be require ( ascii , word6 , word7 , wp5 . 1 , wp6 ) . ( 5 ) abstract must be receive by june 1 , 1998 . ( 6 ) send to : 1999 - iascl congress university of the basque country p . o . box 2111 518 vitorium - gasteiz basque country spain we regret that we cannot accept electronic submission . registration the registration fee until february 15 , 1999 be 35 , 0 pt for iascl member ; 23 , 0 pt for student , and 19 . 0 pt for accompany person ( include participation in all social event offer to iascl member ) . leat registration will increase the fee with an additional 7 , 500 pt for each category . the fee include the congress facility , program and abstract , coffee and refreshments during the meet , the open reception , the conference dinner , a sightsee tour , a " basque even " , and membership in the iascl until the 2002 congress . participant from country with currency problem can contact the organizer in order to apply for a registration reduce fee . accommodation five , four and three star hotel near the congress venue in the town area will be available at reduce rate . limit accommodation will also be available in student dorm . the range of price be give below ( without reduce rate ) : single double five star hotel 24 , 0 pt 30 , 0 pt four star hotel 16 , 800 pt 21 , 0 pt three star hotel 14 , 400 pt 18 , 0 pt two star hotel 11 , 500 pt 14 , 0 pt student dorm 5 , 0 pt detail information and reduce rate will be give in the third announcement . excursions arrangement for daily excursion may be make during the week of the congress upon request . option include tour to various place of interest such biarritz , st . jean de luz , pamplona - iruqea , bilbao - bilbo , zarautz , loiolum , etc . pre - and post-congress tour to france or to spain may be arrange for those who would like to use this opportunity . travel arrangement for special rate for flight be be negotiate with some airline . the nearest airport be : biarritz at 40 km from san sebastian - donostium , bilbao at 100 km and san sebastian at 20km ( only a limit number of national flight ) . train from pari , arrive at hendaye / irun and have frequent connection with san sebastian - donostium . train and couch also run from madrid or barcelona to san sebastian - donostium . deadlines submission of abstract : june 1 , 1998 . registration fee and hotel deposit : february 15 , 1999 . sponsors university of the basque country basque government : dept . of education and research ; dept . of language policy ; dept . of industry and agriculture . county council fo gipuzkoa city council of san sebastian - donostium gipuzkoa - donostium kutxa bank
