Subject: 

data from : coffee @ northcoastcoffee . com to : deat : thu , 7 jan 1999 13 : 55 : 18 pst subject : your free coffee grinder ! reply to remove @ northcoastcoffee . com to remove yourself from our mail list ( no message or subject necessary ) dear fellow coffee drinker , if you ' ve ever taste coffee make from bean that be roast only a few day before , you know what i ' m talk about . we believe that one of life 's simple pleasure be a cup of good coffee . truly great coffee come from coffee bean grind only moment before be brew . that 's why north coast coffee would like to give you a free caf mill coffee grinder just for try our exceptional coffee . here at north coast coffee , we roast your coffee when you order it and not before ! order that be place be collect and combine with other order , and each morn the specific coffee that be need for that day be roast . the caf mill coffee grinder have a 1 year warranty and normally retail for $ 25 . it be absolutely free when you join mike 's coffee crew and purchase 2 pound of the freshest coffee you have ever taste . to get your free caf mill coffee grinder , go to http : / / www . northcoastcoffee . com / ccrew . htm and look at mike 's coffee crew page . it 's easy to order and within a few day , you ' ll be have fun grind your own coffee bean and enjoy the best coffee you have ever taste ! coffee from north coast be not expensive ! for example , columbium supremo be only $ 7 . 50 a pound and guatemalan antigua be $ 7 . 75 per pound . if you like the great flavor of african coffee , look at our kenya aa for $ 12 . 50 a pound and tanzanian peaberry for $ 10 . 0 per pound . become part of mike 's coffee crew cost nothing . there be no fee and no commitment that you have to make . when you buy your first 2 pound of coffee , we ' ll send you the grinder and it be yours to keep , even if you quit after your very first shipment of coffee . how can we make such an offer ? it 's easy . this be great coffee , at a great price and we think that once you try it , you ' re really go to like it . in fact , we think that you ' ll like it so much , you ' ll want to tell your coffee love friend . sorry ! - - coffee as fresh as north coast 's can't be find in any grocery store nor even at most coffee shop . coffee shop have to stock their coffee for the people that shop for it and that means it sit in their store for week , sometime even longer ! at north coast coffee , we roast your coffee when you order it and not before ! great coffee be fresh roast coffee . the freshest coffee ( unless you roast it yourself ) be north coast coffee . so get your free grinder today ! click on http : / / www . northcoastcoffee . com / ccrew . htm and soon you ' ll be drink the best coffee you have ever taste ! michael shaffer coffee lover and president north coast coffee company
