Subject: wow ! a college degree on the internet ? ! ?

a college business degree in month ? ? ? that 's right ! you could " earn " a bachelor , master or doctorate degree from a well know , prestigious university in months instead of year and it be completely legitimate ! ! how ? by enroll in one of the many non-traditional degree program offer by many of the country top accredit school . school such as american university , brigham young , colorado state university , dartmouth , drake , george washington and 100 's of other be all currently offer non-traditional degree program in almost every field of study ( business , account , medical , law etc . . ) and they can , in some case , be earn in month instead of year and many through correspondence or internet study . you will never have to leave your home and here 's the best part - - no one will ever know how you earn it unless " you " tell them . * * * competition with technical trade school have force the main stream university to offer alternative degree program and now " you " can benefit from it ! ! i have compile a packet that list over 700 accredit and non-accredit university that offer such program and for the small fee of $ 29 . 95 i will send it to you . here 's what you will get : a 270 page document contain - 1 ) a comprehensive list of over 700 us and foreign school ( over 500 be state or otherwise accredit ) that offer traditional & non-traditional degree program from a bachelor to a doctorate in almost every field of study . 2 ) information on each school list that will include degree offer , how to apply , who to contact and what be the fee and loan / grant information . 3 ) a list of over 50 state agency that govern university education program . therefore you can investigate concern of legitimacy yourself for each individual school . 4 ) finally , just for fun , i will include a list of over 200 university , commonly know as " diploma mill " which will sell you any degree or diploma you wish . price range from $ 5 - $ 100 . " is there a doctor in the house ? " simply send $ 29 . 95 in us fund only ( check or money order ) to : john wallace dba wallace sale grp . 341 bittersweet henderson ky 42420 * * don ' t forget your e mail address ! ! i will e-mail it within 48 hr . after receive your order . thank you . further question ? drop me a line at the address above . * * the reason there be no valid e - mail address attach to this offer be due to the fact that it have be disable on several occasion by an illegal practice call " mail bomb " . * * the " physical address " above be that of the wallace sale grp , and home office of it 's ownership . scam almost alway use a p . o . box . this address can be verify through be code 502 information . just ask for " wallace " on bittersweet ln . . henderson ky * * all customer will be give a valid e-address upon order . * * if you would like to be exclude from other offer , please respond to the address above . a confirmation letter of your removal will be send to you as well as a refund of your stamp . i will honor all requests for removal ! ! .
