Subject: < adv > free investment newsletter !

adv : free stock newsletter , diamond in the rough . . . " diamonds in the rough " - july , 1999 base upon your internet interest , i think that you would be interest in our free monthly newsletter call diamond in the rough . each month the newsletter contain an undervalue public company that be on the verge of make a big move . have spend countless hour search for emerge stock that have the potential to make substantial profit , my goal be to show that big winner can be find where other fear to look . if you no longer wish to receive the newsletter , please click here mailto : remove @ stoc100 . com ? subject = remove and send the e-mail . if you be interest in receive our free newsletter every month please click here : mailto : subscribe @ stoc100 . com ? subject = subscribe ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ letter from the editor : ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ dear reader : rate hike a quarter point . summer stock fever ? in the past week the market show sign of a early summer ralley with the index show strength before the federal reserve conference rap up on wednesday . the volume trail off and the market be weak before the fed announce they be raise short-term interest rate by a quarter percentage point in a bid to keep inflation low . this be the first rate hike by the central bank 's policy arm in more than two year . the question be now what ? what will the fed do next ? the answer to these question win be know for month , but the fomc will be watch closely for any sign for the future . the market spike after the news with the dow rise 136 point and nasdaq rise 43 point . internet stock and interest sensitive stock be affect the most after the announcement . in internet new this week cmgi agree to buy a 83 % stake in the altavista search engine for $ 2 . 3 billion from compaq computer . cmgi have establish itself as one of the internet 's hottest stock picker 's with early investment in lyco , geocity and critical path . cmgi plan to make altavista the centre of its web empire with stake in more than 40 internet property the deal also include two other compaq internet property , shop . com and zip2 . com . softbank partner and a boston - base buyout firm be invest $ 40 million in a new york day trade firm , tradescape . com , in exchange for minority equity stake . this week we have six small cap emerge company in various industry in our feature stock report . feature stock report : ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ scottsdale scientific , inc . , through it 's wholly own subsidiary , nutrus , inc . / allergy research group be an innovative leader in research and the formulation of nutritional supplement . scottsdale scientific , inc . be a multi-national company position to profit in the $ 92 billion annual neutraceutical market . the company have expand capacity and establish new distribution channel , include the internet through its web site . the company be recognize worldwide for the quality , purity , and efficacy of its nutritional supplement line . this be exemplify by over 6 , 0 physician and health care practitioner who purchase the product and recommend them to their patient . the company have the management , innovative product , and industry reputation to capitalize on industry trend and growth . this establish company be now under take important initiative to increase revenue and earnings rapidly over the next few year . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - dot com entertainment group , inc . be an internet software company , specialize in the creation , support , maintenance , promotion , license and sale of entertainment and game software product for use on the internet . dot com be not an internet game company , rather it license the use of its proprietary commercial software product and trademark , such as cyberbingotm to independent , arms-length third party , who be locate in jurisdiction who have embrace and license internet game . dot com 's sale be generate through its assessment of license fee and royalty from the use of its software , base on the gross sale of its licensee . in addition , dot com also provide licensee with technical support , maintenance , software upgrade , back office support , information and system consult service and offer market and promotional initiative in order to generate goodwill in its product internationally . the cyberbingo game have already host more than 810 , 0 player , who have play more than 50 , 0 game , result in more than us $ 560 , 0 be return to player as winnings . cyberbingotm be dot com 's initial software offer and be the world 's longest run , fully interactive , java base , internet bingo hall . cyberbingotm 's " scaleable " design permit unlimit player per game . as dot com promote and market cyberbingotm internationally , player level of 1000 player on average per game be achievable . at these level , annual royalty income to dot com from this one licensee will exceed $ 16 . 5 million and do not include additional support , maintenance and other fee which will be assess to each licensee as require . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - global business information directory , inc . be found to provide a vehicle for business to market themselve and establish business contact around the world by utilize gbid 's service vium the internet and the world wide web . company web site can be find through gbid . com quest , by select search industry category , search by continent , by country , by state / province or region , and finally by city or and combination of the four . by market this web host service to the business community , gbdi offer 's a service that be specific , productive and informative . search engine on the internet be currently word search base . any information in word form , put into the search engine would access vast amount of information store on the internet that would contain the search word or combination of word . this method of search become frustrate and time consume , and most importantly for the businessperson , unproductive . gbid have solve this problem with the introduction of the gbid quest ; a geographical base search engine dedicate to help business market themselve . company web site can be find , by select search industry category , search by continent , by country , by state / province or region , and finally by city or and combination of the four . by market this web host service to the business community , gbid offer 's a service that be specific , productive and informative . gbid . com will be seek qualify associate partner ( ap ) , join venture partner , licensee and strategic ally and utilize their strength to further the development of the technology that gbid have create . these partner will take an active part in the development and market of the various application of the technology . this market strategy will enable gbid . com to focus on distribute the use of its intellectual property wider , faster and better . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - for additional information on any of the feature company in this newsletter , please click on the follow link and tell us which company that you would like more information on . do n't forget to include your e-mail address or phone number . mailto : moreinfo @ foxlink . net ? subject = more _ information - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - in stear medium system , inc . be a six-year - old denver , colorado base consumer market and information technology company . the company 's focus be the consumer orient , coupon promotion industry . isms have invest over $ 7 million to develop proprietary electronic coupon distribution and redemption system which solve long-stand problem and provide new capability for efficiently market product in supermarket and other type of retail store . in stear medium system , inc . ( isms ) be in position to change the way america shop . isms have develop a proprietary in-lane , electronic coupon clear system - the in $ taclear system . the in $ taclear ( system will clear , right at checkout , virtually all coupon currently be distribute by manufacturer across the country . the in $ taclear system practically eliminate manual clear and all but eliminate freight and coupon misredemption ( an $ 800 million per year industry savings ) . today , cents-off coupon be the only cash instrument in america that be not clear electronically . as a result , it take approximately 44 day from when the coupon be accept at the supermarket until they be reimburse . the current physical clear process also cost manufacturer in excess of $ 800 million per year in ship and misredemption cost . isms have develop a patent-pend process that could be install at every supermarket checkout lane to immediately clear and track every coupon redeem with no need for further handle . total us coupon spend be $ 6 . 2 billion in 1998 . over 249 billion coupon be distribute last year and 4 . 8 billion be redeem . consumer save $ 3 . 6 billion dollar by use coupon in 1998 . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - magnum venture - on april 19 , 1999 , magnum venture inc . acquire radiotower . com and have apply for a change of name to reflect this event . the expect name will be radiotower . com . the name change be expect to take effect shortly . radiotower . com be a free online directory of radio station that webcast on the internet . radiotower make it easy to tune in and listen to over 900 radio station from around the world in dozen of genre ( top 40 , news , alternative , rock , sport , etc . ) . the company also provide information and description for each station and link to the station ' own home page . user can select radio station by name , place , or genre . the company 's mission be to become one of the most informative , entertain and interactive audio site on the internet - a full service audio portal to the world . 20 million people currently listen to internet audio . the market be expect to more than double by year 2000 . higher bandwidth and greater pc penetration will fuel additional growth . quality , choice , and reach of internet radio will also increase . much sooner than any of us expect , listen to internet audio will be as commonplace as turn on the radio . radiotower . com launch its service june 9 , 1996 . the company be a pioneer within the industry , develop one of the first web site with a live audio directory . the company have in depth knowledge of internet and internet audio . the company have regular user , site recognition , and strategic alliance with important industry player . before 1999 , radiotower . com have no market budget and already 20 , 0 register user . the user base have develop from word of mouth , high listing on all major search engine , and link from 1000 of other site . the site have also receive numerous favorable review from the l . a . time , hotwire , and the vancouver sun . radiotower . com 's award include yahoo pick and window magazine site of the day . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - synergy technology corporation , through its 75 % - own subsidiary , carbon resource limit , be develop three proprietary technology with an estimate combine market potential , through license fee and run royalty , of between $ 400 million and $ 1 . 22 billion over the next ten year . gas - to - liquid ( gtl ) technology gtl be carbon 's revolutionary process for convert the natural gas release during oil production or exist strand reserve into clean-burn synthetic fuel , which have a $ 7 to $ 10 per barrel premium over conventional fuel . because this process be approximately 30 % less expensive than compete gtl process and due to mount political , regulatory and tax pressure on oil and gas company to help reduce the level of atmospheric co2 ( form in the atmosphere from release natural gas ) , these company may now have greatly increase incentive to utilize carbon 's gtl process on a worldwide scale . licensing in the next ten year from just one percent of the current gtl market be estimate to be $ 220 to $ 440 million . heavy oil upgrade carbon own a 50 percent interest in a proprietary technology that convert so-cal heavy oils into lighter oils , which , at current market value , sell for about $ 15 per barrel , twice the price of heavy oils . the current market for heavy oil be now 4 . 5 million barrel per day , six percent of worldwide oil production . many expert believe this market will increase to 25 percent of worldwide oil production by the year 2015 . penetration of only 3 . 5 percent of the current market over the next ten year be anticipate to produce license and royalty of at least $ 60 million and could , under most favorable market condition , reach $ 300 million . microturbine fuel base on recent test , carbon 's syngen reactor ( a patent and proprietary first phase gtl component ) cheaply and efficiently gasify crude oil , produce fuel that can be use in microturbine and boiler by oil company to decrease the cost of power in oil production by eliminate the need for an outside power source . analyst expect the current potential microturbine market to grow by at least 25 percent per year for the foreseeable future . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - for additional information on any of the feature company in this newsletter , please click on the follow link and tell us which company that you would like more information on . do n't forget to include your e-mail address or phone number . mailto : moreinfo @ foxlink . net ? subject = more _ information - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - disclaimer : diamond in the rough be not a register investment advisor or a broker / dealer . this newsletter be compile from information provide by the company herein . reader be advise that this information be issue solely for information purpose and be not to be construe as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy . the opinion and analysis include herein be base on source believe to be reliable and in good faith but no representation or warranty , express or imply , be make as to their accuracy , completeness or correctness . this information be not intend to be use as the sole basis of any investment decision , nor should it be construe as advice design to meet the investment need of any particular investor . the forego discussion contain forward-look statement which be base on current expectation and difference can be expect . the information contain herein have be provide by the company to diamond in the rough for information purpose only ; in addition , the information contain in this report be not intend to be a complete discussion of information regard some of the current and / or intend business activity of the company . reader be urge to consult with independent financial advisor with respect to an investment in the shares mention herein . investor should review a complete information package on the company which should include , but not be limit to , the company 's annual report , quarterly report , press release , as well as all regulatory filings . all information contain in this report should be independently verify with the company mention herein . any opinion express in this report be statement of judgment as of the date of publication and be subject to change without further notice , and may not necessarily be reprint in future publication or elsewhere . neither diamond in the rough nor its officer , director , partner or employee / consultant accept any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arise from any use of this report or its contents . in order to be in full compliance with the security act of 1933 , section 17 ( b ) , diamond in the rough advise the reader of this document that it have receive a fee of $ 10 , 0 usd for its effort in research , write , present and disseminate the information contain herein . the reader should verify all claims and do their own due diligence before investing in any securities mentioned . investing in securities is speculative and carries a high degree of risk .
