Subject: call for contributions

call for contributions : _ concepts and practice of network - based language teaching _ mark warschauer , university of hawaii at manoa richard kern , university of california at berkeley we are submitting a proposal to cambridge university press applied linguistics series ( series editors michael long and jack richards ) for an edited volume on the concepts and practice of computer network-based language teaching ( i . e . , involving the internet , local area networks , or other forms of electronic communication ) . it is intended that the book will be solidly based on second language acquisition theory and research and that its principle audience will be faculty and graduate students ( e . g . , as a text in graduate courses in applied linguistics , tesol , and foreign language education ) . we are seeking two types of chapter submissions : ( 1 ) critical analyses of the concepts of network-based teaching as they relate to aspects of language acquistion theory or educational theory ( for example , consideration of relationships of network-based language teaching to cognitive , psycholinguistic , sociolinguistic , sociocultural , literary , or critical pedagogical theories ) . ( 2 ) theoretically - grounded empirical studies of the practice of network-based teaching . chapters on classroom practice should include a review of the literature , a detailed description of the research methods used , an in-depth analysis and discussion of the data , and implications for teaching and future research . analyses can be qualititative or quantitative , and can explore multiple types of variables ( e . g . , process , product , cognitive , social , affective , contextual ) . timeline / deadlines : 1 . dec . 1 , 1996 : notification of interest please send an email message to mark warschauer ( mark @ hawaii . edu ) or richard kern ( kernrg @ uclink . berkeley . edu ) notifying us of your possible interest in submitting an abstract as well as the likely topic . 2 . jan . 15 , 1996 : submission of abstract please send one packet to each editor including : one page with the title of your abstract and your and your contact information ( address , telephone , e-mail , and fax number ) ; one page with the title and abstract of the proposed chapter ( maximum 1 - 2 pages , single spaced ) ; your complete cv , including previous publications one copy to : one copy to : mark warschauer richard kern esl dept , moore 570 department of french 1890 east - west road university of california , berkeley university of hawaii berkeley , ca 94720-2580 honolulu , hi 96816 3 . feb . 15 , 1996 : notification about status of abstract 4 . sept . 1 , 1996 : manuscripts submitted to editors ( warschauer / kern ) ( hard copy and diskette , in apa format ) 5 . oct . 1 , 1996 : initial editorial response ( by warschauer / kern ) to manuscripts 6 . dec . 15 , 1996 : revised manuscripts due 7 . feb 1 , 1997 : book manuscript submitted to cambridge university press applied linguistics series editors ( expected publication date , 9-12 months later ) the editors : mark warschauer is a researcher at the national foreign language resource center of the university of hawaii . his publications include _ e - mail for english teaching : bringing the internet and computer learning networks into the language classroom _ ( tesol publications , 1995 ) and _ virtual connections : online activities & projects for networking language learners _ ( university of hawaii , in press ) . richard kern is assistant professor of french and director of the french language program at the university of california at berkeley . his research interests include reading and writing in a foreign language and the use of networked computers to facilitate communicative language use . he has published articles in the modern language journal , foreign language annals , canadian modern language review , and studies in second language acquisition . thank you very much for your interest . we hope that this book will play an important role in bringing together the most advanced research on this topic and making it available to faculty , researchers , graduate students , and interested teachers . we are looking forward to hearing from you and to receiving your abstracts . mark warschauer richard kern university of hawaii university of california , berkeley markw @ hawaii . edu kernrg @ uclink . berkeley . edu
