Subject: job opportunity at celex , the netherlands

job opportunity at celex : german database development - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - thanks to a grant given by the board of the council for the humanities , one of the councils functioning within the netherlands organization for scientific research ( nwo ) , celex , the dutch centre for lexical information , invites applications for the position of one full-time researcher to expand and enhance the german lexical database for the fixed period of one year . tasks - - - - within the framework of a long-term lexical database research and development project , celex has been compiling and updating massive structured collections of numerous word features for dutch , english and german for the past ten years . celex has been jointly established and managed by the university of nijmegen , the institute for perception research ( ipo ) in eindhoven , the institute for dutch lexicology ( inl ) in leiden , and the max planck institute for psycholinguistics ( mpi ) in nijmegen . it is located at the mpi , which is formally entrusted with its day-to - day administration . a grant recently awarded by nwo enables us to appoint one extra computational linguist for a period of one year on a full-time basis . the future employee 's tasks will focus on enhancing and expanding the german lexical database . they include : - adding frequent words and neologisms to the german database from the text corpus supplied by the institut fuer deutsche sprache in mannheim , and possibly other , more recent or more extensive corpora . - expanding these words to their full inflectional paradigm and encoding their orthographic , morphological , phonological and syntactic features . - disambiguating the frequencies of all homographic wordforms ( approx . 12 , 000 existing and new entries ) on the basis of their context in the mannheim corpus or other corpora . this task will be carried out in collaboration with two student assistants . - evaluating and , where necessary , revising the verbal argument structures listed in the current database on the basis of scholarly publications , corpus research and dictionary labels . requirements - - - - - - - - - - - applicants should ideally have a master 's degree in german with advanced computational skills , or have mixed but solid qualifications in german and computational linguistics . native speakers of german with a training in general and computational linguistics are also invited to apply . employment conditions - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - employment will be on a temporary basis , for a period of one year . although the grant is restricted to this period , the appointment may be extended depending on the provision of additional funding from the dutch government , european councils or any other relevant bodies . no further commitment on our part or claims on the part of the applicant can be derived from this statement , however . the salary will be on the scale of 10 ( approx . dfl . 4 , 000 = ( us $ 2 , 500 ) to 6 , 000 , = ( us $ 3 , 750 ) before tax per month ) for junior researchers , according to qualifications and relevant experience . enquiries - - - - - - - - further enquiries can be made to : richard piepenbrock celex project manager max planck institute for psycholinguistics wundtlaan 1 6525 xd nijmegen the netherlands tel : ( + 31 ) ( 0 ) 80 - 615797 fax : ( + 31 ) ( 0 ) 80 - 521213 > from 10-10 - 1995 : tel : ( + 31 ) ( 0 ) 24 - 3615797 fax : ( + 31 ) ( 0 ) 24 - 3521213 e - mail : celex @ mpi . nl more information on celex ( though not on the job ) can be found on our www - homepage at url http : / / www . kun . nl / celex method of application - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - letters of application , accompanied by a curriculum vitae and the names and addresses ( also e-mail address , if applicable ) of two referees should be sent by surface mail or e-mail to the above-mentioned addresses . the closing date for applications is september 15 , 1995 . you can expect to be notified of the outcome of your application not later than one month after the closing date .
