Subject: call for papers - - - jengl

call for papers journal of english linguistics one of the few linguistics journals dedicated to presenting primarily empirical work , the journal of english linguistics is now being published by sage periodicals press , a leading international publisher of scholarly books and journals in the social sciences . the editors , william a . kretzschmar , jr . , and charles f . meyer , continue to invite submissions on the modern and historical periods of the english language . the journal of english linguistics normally prints synchronic and diachronic studies on subjects from old and middle english , to modern english grammar , corpus linguistics , and dialectology . other topics , for example , from language contact , to pidgins / creoles , or stylistics are acceptable if the article keeps its focus on the english language . articles normally range from 10 to 25 pages in typescript ( up to about 50kb on disk ) . submission to the journal of english linguistics implies that your article has n't been simultaneously submitted to other journals or previously published elsewhere . as a new feature beginning with the first sage issue , volume 24 , the journal of english linguistics will publish special issues ( monographs or topical collections of articles appropriate to the journal that are up to approximately 100 printed pages ) . these special issues should treat methodology or present results of model studies . all methodological issues should be fully illustrated with particular examples from empirical research , and should present documentation complete enough for readers themselves to use the methods described . model studies should fully describe data acquisition and analysis , as well as present detailed results and conclusions . proposals for special issues of the journal of english linguistics should be sent to the editor . the journal will continue to review titles in general and historical linguistics , language variation , sociolinguistics , and dialectology for an international audience . unsolicited reviews cannot be considered . books for review and correspondence regarding reviews should be sent to the editor . all submissions should be prepared according to the chicago manual of style , 14th ed . submissions are juried . send all mss to the editor : provide a textfile produced by any common ibm - compatible word processor , on diskette or via electronic mail ( mac users should submit a pure ascii file ) , plus two copies of a formatted printout . all other editorial correspondence should be addressed to the editor . william a . kretzschmar , jr . editor , journal of english linguistics university of georgia , athens , ga 30602-6205 tel : ( 706 ) 542-2246 email : billk @ atlas . uga . edu
