Subject: 

phonology & phonetics burquest , donald a . and david l . payne ; phonological analysis : a functional approach : pb . : isbn : 0-88312 - 608 - 7 ; viii , 179 pp . ; $ 19 . 00 . summer institute of linguistics . burquest and payne have produced an introductory textbook oriented primarily to students interested in previously unstudied or little studied languages and who need a practical guide on how to carry out their investigation . it gives a broad base of exposure to the kind of phonological phenomena found in a range of languages . internet : academic . books @ sil . org textbook , phonology note : [ price correction for the book below ] watt , david l . e . the phonology and semology of intonation in english : an instrumental and systemic perspective . 1994 . 192 pp . 6x9 book . prepaid us $ 22 . 00 + 3 . 50 p&h ( us ) / 5 . 00 ( can ) / 5 . 50 ( other ) . iulc publications , 720 e . atwater ave . , bloomington in 47401 . < iulc . indiana . edu > watt presents an extensive study of intonation and its meaning potential from a systemic functional perspective , advancing halliday 's description of intonation . includes over 250 instrumentally derived illustrations of examples from original tape recordings , cited examples , and recordings of casual conversations . ( a previous posting to the list contained an incorrect price for the book . we regret any inconvenience . ) syntax harms , phillip l . ; epena pedee syntax : studies in the languages of colombia 4 ; pb . : isbn : 0-88312 - 276 - 6 ; xiv , 213 pp . $ 27 . 00 . summer institute of linguistics and university of texas arlington . the author describes the major grammatical structures of the language from morphology through discourse , with an introductory phonological sketch . epena pedee is an ergative-absolutive language , but one in which the subject has an important role , in that it manifests number agreement with the verb . internet : academic . books @ sil . org syntax , colombia wiering , elizabeth and marinus wiering ; the doyayo language : selected studies ; pb . : isbn : 0-88312 - 620 - 6 ; x , 299 pp . $ 28 . 00 summer institute of linguistics and university of texas arlington . doyayo is the language of about 15 , 000 people in northern cameroon . using a descriptive linguistic approach , the wierings cover phonology , structure of indicative verbs , some major systactic structures on levels from morpheme through discourse , and some features of folktales . internet : academic . books @ sil . org syntax , phonology , cameroon cope , pamela ; introductory grammar : a stratificational approach ; pb . ; isbn : 1-55671 - 001 - 1 ; ix , 113 pp . ; $ 12 . 00 . summer institute of linguistics . cope presents a clear exposition of stratificational grammar , intended primarily for beginning linguistic students . internet : academic . books @ sil . org textbook , syntax semantics berman , stephen r . ( university of massachusetts , amherst ) ; on the semantics and logical form of wh - clauses , pb . xiii + 279 pp . ph . d . dissertation , 1991 . $ 16 + s / h ( $ 3 domestic , $ 4 foreign surface ) . graduate linguistic student association ( glsa ) , university of massachusetts , amherst . this dissertation proposes a semantically dichotomous analysis of wh-clauses as denoting either questions or quantified propositions , depending on syntactic context ( in certain cases additionally influenced by lexical properties ) . behavior under quantificational adverbs provides the primary diagnostic tool and motivates analysing wh-phrases as inherently nonquantified open sentences , following the heim / kamp treatment of indefinites . restrictions on wh-phrase quantifiability , which it is argued interacts with presupposition , motivate the semantic dichotomy . additionally , the quantified interpretation is argued not to involve inherent exhaustiveness . contact glsa @ linguist . umass . edu for more info .
