Subject: ceth summer seminar on electronic texts in the humanities

electronic texts in the humanities : methods and tools the fourth annual ceth summer seminar , 11-23 june 1995 , princeton university organized by center for electronic texts in the humanities , princeton and rutgers universities and co-sponsored by centre for computing in the humanities , university of toronto seminar directors : susan hockey , center for electronic texts in the humanities willard mccarty , centre for computing in the humanities an intensive two-week seminar is again being offered by the center for electronic texts in the humanities ( ceth ) in june 1995 . the seminar will address a wide range of challenges and opportunities that electronic texts and software offer to teachers , scholars , and librarians in the humanities . the focus will be practical and methodological , with the immediate aim of assisting participants in their teaching , research and advising . in response to demand , we are expanding the seminar in 1995 to allow for sixty participants . there will be plenary sessions and six parallel tracks devoted to specific areas of humanities computing . participants attend all plenary sessions and select one parallel track for more detailed study . they will work on their own projects and will have the opportunity to present them at the end of the seminar . schedule ( pl = plenary session ) sunday , june 11 6 pm registration , reception and introductions . monday , june 12 am pl : what electronic texts are and where to find them pm pl : creating and capturing texts in electronic form ; tuesday , june 13 am pl : introduction to concordances and text retrieval pm pl : overview of the text encoding initiative and sgml wednesday , june 14 am pl : large text databases . artfl . dartmouth dante project , oed pm parallel tracks thursday , june 15 am pl : electronic editions and scholarly publishing ( panel ) . pm parallel tracks friday , june 16 am pl : introduction to structured databases . pm parallel tracks monday , june 19 am pl : hypertext for the humanities . pm parallel tracks tuesday , june 20 am pl : overview of digital imaging techniques . demonstrations . pm individual project work . wednesday , june 21 am pl : institutional support for electronic texts ( panel ) . pm parallel tracks thursday , june 22 am pl : discussion on the limitations of existing software . pm pl : presentation of participants ' projects . 6 pm cocktails and banquet . friday , june 23 am pl : presentation of participants ' projects . pm pl : concluding discussion of basic questions . what from a scholarly and methodological perspective is to be gained ? parallel tracks 1 . textual analysis an intensive study of textual analysis tools and their applications . indexed interactive retrieval vs batch concordance generation . using tact and micro - ocp . applications : stylistics , corpus linguistics , literary criticism , instructors : susan hockey , center for electronic texts in the humanities willard mccarty , centre for computing in the humanities 2 . text encoding initiative ( tei ) and sgml using the tei 's application of the standard generalized markup language ( sgml ) . document structure and sgml elements , dtds sgml entities , tei core tags and base tag sets , tei header , additional tag sets . processing tei encoded texts . instructor : c . m . sperberg - mcqueen , editor - in - chief of the tei . 3 . scholarly editing computer tools for the preparation and publication of scholarly editions . transcription and computer imaging of sources ; collation ; use of the tei guidelines for scholarly editions ; making hypertext electronic editions instructor : peter robinson , oxford university centre for humanities computing . 4 . hypertext for the humanities an introduction to developing hypertexts for the humanities . building and using hypercard stacks and world wide web documents . design and use of example hypertexts . examination of their role in humanities research and teaching . instructor : geoffrey rockwell , head of humanities computing , mcmaster univ 5 . tools for historical analysis a survey of the methods most frequently used by historians in their computer-aided teaching and research , focusing on database and statistical processing , also content analysis , corpus creation and image processing . instructor : daniel greenstein , senior lecturer in modern history , glasgow univ 6 . setting up an electronic text center the practical aspects of setting up and managing electronic text centers . hardware and software for stand-alone and networked resources , collection development , training , budget , licensing , and institutional relations . instructor : anita lowry , head of the information arcade , university of iowa details dates : june 11-23 , 1995 cost : $ 1275 for nonstudents . $ 1075 for students . the fee includes tuition , use of computer facilities , printed seminar materials , opening reception , lunches ( monday through friday both weeks ) , and a closing banquet . payment is requested at the time of acceptance . location : princeton university , the fourth oldest college in north america , was founded in 1746 . during their stay , seminar participants have access to the university 's extensive computing systems , as well as the princeton art museum and the library system which houses about five million books , and nearly 35 , 000 journals , manuscripts , and papyri . all classrooms , lab facilities , and dormitories are within walking distance on the historic and picturesque princeton , new jersey campus . accommodation : bed and breakfast accommodation is available princeton university student housing facilities at a cost of $ 25 per day . ceth will assist participants in finding hotel accommodations if preferred . application enrollment is limited to sixty participants . application requires two parts : a cover sheet and a statement of interest . current students applying for the reduced rate must also include a photocopy of their valid student id . e - mail submissions must have the subject line " summer seminar application . " applications will be reviewed by a committee consisting of members of ceth 's governing board . on your cover sheet include : your name , current institutional affiliation and your position , postal and e-mail addresses , telephone and fax numbers , natural language interest and computing experience , and parallel tracks you are interested in attending , listed in order of preference . you may indicate up to three parallel tracks . if your first choice is full , you will be assigned to your second choice and so on . in statement of interest include how your participation in the seminar would be relevant for your teaching , research , advising , or administrative work , and possibly that of your colleagues ; what particular project you would like to undertake during the seminar or what area of the humanities your would like most to explore ; and the extent of your computing experience . application deadline : february 21 , 1995 notification of acceptance by march 21 , 1995 send all applications to : ceth summer seminar 1995 , center for electronic texts in the humanities , 169 college avenue , new brunswick , new jersey 08903 u . s . a . phone : 908 / 932-1384 ; fax : 908 / 932-1386 ; e - mail ceth @ zodiac . rutgers . edu [ a longer version of this notice is on the ceth www server at http : / / cethmac . princeton . edu ]
