Subject: conference announcement and call for papers

content - length : 3132 conference announcement and call for papers 11th annual meeting of the language origins society july 28 - aug 1 , 1995 janus pannonius university , pecs , hungary papers on all aspects of the origin and evolution of signed and spoken languages are welcome . since progress in this field of research is best achieved through a multidisciplinary approach , the los and the organizers of this meeting are anxious to enlist the combined efforts of all interested scholars , especially those of anthropologists , archaeologists , biologists , cognitive scientists , ethologists , linguists , palaeontologists , and psychologists . a selection of the papers presented at this meeting will be published as soon as possible . those who wish to present a paper ( los membership is not a prerequisite ) are kindly requested to send a 300 - word abstract to the organizers . computer users are asked to send their texts in electronic format on 3 . 5 " diskettes preferably processed with wordperfect or ms - word . downloading electronic files is also possible ( and indeed preferred ) , though authors using non - ascii characters in their texts are advised to send their abstracts on diskettes . the standard registration fee will be us $ 50 . 00 , the student us $ 25 . 00 . special arrangements have been made for lodging and some of the meals : in the venue of the los meeting : the total cost for six nights starting july 27 plus breakfast and lunch each day will be : us $ 310 . 00 for a single us $ 215 . 00 per person for a double n . b . these prices could vary slightly with the exchange rate . tentative plans are being made for a 3 - day post-conference tour . the organizers will give out the details as they become available to them . correspondence should be addressed to : gabor gyori janus pannonius university department of english ifjusag utja 6 . 7624 pecs hungary phone / fax : ( internat ' l ) 36 72 314-714 e - mail : gyorig @ btk . jpte . hu the organizers ask that those who can be reached electronically kindly indicate their e-mail addresses in their correspondence . it is kindly requested that abstracts be in their possession no later than april 15 , 1995 and that hotel reservations be made also before that date , by sending , along with the request , a deposit of us $ 50 . 00 or its equivalent in any other freely convertible currency . this sum should be in the form of a certified bank check payable to gabor gyori .
