Subject: computational linguistics j

subject : time : 5 : 52 pm office memo computational linguistics job date : 2 / 2 / 95 university of melbourne department of linguistics lecturer in computational linguistics ( three - year appointment ) . this position is being readvertised the department of linguistics is a dynamic new department with growing strengths in discourse , semantics , cognitive science and speech synthesis . we wish to develop new teaching and research programs in computational linguistics at undergraduate and postgraduate levels , and are seeking a lecturer in computational linguistics , for a three year appointment beginning in june / july 1995 . the position is funded by university development funds and the microsoft institute of advanced software technology . subject to the success of the program in attracting students and establishing research in the area , it is hoped to advertise a continuing position in computational linguistics at the end of the three-year term . duties : you should have expertise in computational linguistics , a good background in general linguistics , and additional specializations in one or more areas of nlp , such as machine translation , text generation , computational phonology or computational morphology , linguistic knowledge representation . you will contribute to the development of teaching and research in computational linguistics through the teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the linguistics and cognitive science programs , as well as some teaching in general linguistics ; through supervision of postgraduate research in linguistics and in relevant parts of the cognitive science program . you will pursue research in one or more of the above areas , and help coordinate the linguistics contribution to the master 's in cognitive science . further information about the position , and the linguistics department , may be obtained from ms christine mckeown , administrative assistant , department of linguistics , university of melbourne , parkville 3052 , australia . tel . : 03 344 5488 ; fax 03 344 4980 ; email christine _ mckeown @ muwayf . unimelb . edu . au . applications ( including the names and facsimile numbers of three referees ) should be sent to the director , personnel services , the university of melbourne , parkville , victoria , 3052 ; fax ( 03 ) 344 4694 , or emailed to christine _ mckeown @ muwayf . unimelb . edu . au . applications close march 20th , 1995 . salary range : a $ 41 , 574 to $ 49 , 370 according to experience and qualifications . the university of melbourne is an equal opportunity employer and has a smoke-free workplace policy .
