Subject: esslli

seventh european summer school in logic language and information barcelona , august 14-25 1995 for more information contact : esslli95 gilcub avda . vallvidrera 25 08017 barcelona fax + 43 3 2054656 tlf + 43 3 2033597 e - mail esslli95 @ gilcub . es general information the summer school the seventh european summer school in logic , language and information will be held at the biology faculty of barcelona university from august 14th to 25th . the school is organized under the auspices of the european foundation of logic , language and information ( folli ) , jointly by universitat de barcelona , universitat rovira i virgili , universitat autonoma de barcelona , and universitat politecnica de catalunya . the previous summer schools took place at rijks universiteit groningen in the netherlands in1989 , at the katholieke universiteit leuven in belgium in 1990 , at the universitat saarlandes , saarbrucken in germany in 1991 , at the university of essex colchester in the united kingdomin 1992 , at the faculdade de letras da universidade de lisboa in portugal in 1993 , and at the copenhagen business school in denmark in 1994 . for these schools financial support was derived from a variety of sources , including the commision of the european community , through the erasmus programme and the dg xiii , research networks , national research councils , and industrial sponsors . the same kind of support is expected for the 1995 school . the main focus of the summer school is the interface between logic , linguistics and computation , where it concerns the modelling of human linguistic and cognitive abilities . the 1995 school programme will include courses , workshops , and symposia covering a variety of topics within six areas of interest : logic , language , computation , logic and computation , computation and language , language and logic . courses will be cast at both introductory and advanced levels . introductory courses are designed to familiarize students with new fields and do not presuppose any background knowledge , while advanced courses are designed to allow participants to acquire more specialized expertise in areas they are already familiar with . workshops will be chaired by an expert in ther field and will provide an opportunity for phd students and other young researchers to present their work and gain informed feedback and useful contacts . symposia will typically consist of a series of presentations on a timely topic by people active in the relevant areas . both workshops and symposia are intended to encourage collaboration and cross fertilization of ideas by stimulatingin-depth discussion of issues which are at the forefront of current research in the field . there will also be a series of invited evening lecturers by well-known experts in their field . accomodation there will be accomodation available . more information will appear in following anouncements . course programme section : logic and language algebraic semantics for natural language name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : godehard link affiliation ( s ) : institut fur philosophie , logik und wissenschaftstheorie ( iplw ) universitat munchen e - mail : glink @ cis . uni-muenchen . de type : introductory formal forays into language name of lecturers : jan van eijck and jan jaspars affiliation ( s ) : cwi , amsterdam and ots , utrecht e - mail : jve @ cwi . nl / jaspars @ cwi . nl type : introductory the dynamics of structure name of lecturer ( s ) : c . vermeulen , a . visser affiliation ( s ) : department of philosophy e - mail : albert . visser @ phil . ruu . nl , kees . vermeulen @ phil . ruu . nl type : advanced nearness and syntactic influence spheres name of lecturer : marcus kracht affiliation : department of mathematics , fu berlin e - mail : kracht @ math . fu-berlin . de type : advanced feature logics and infinitary descriptions name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : bill keller affiliation ( s ) : school of cognitive and computing sciences , university of sussex e - mail : billk @ cogs . susx . ac . uk type : advanced a mathematical theory of language learnability name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : dick de jongh and makoto kanazawa affiliation ( s ) : department of mathematics and computer science , university of amsterdam department of cognitive and information sciences , faculty of letters , chiba university e - mail : dickdj @ fwi . uva . nl and kanazawa @ cogsci . l . chiba-u . ac . jp type : advanced complex part structures and natural language name of lecturer : friederike moltman affiliation : dept of philosophy , city university of new york ( cuny ) e - mail : isagc @ cunyvm . bitnet type : advanced properties and types name of organizer : chris fox affiliation : department of computer science university of essex e - mail : foxcj @ essex . ac . uk type : workshop formal epistemology name of organizer : hans rott affiliation ( s ) : university of konstanz e - mail : pirott @ nyx . uni-konstanz . de type : workshop underspecification in computational semantics name of organizer : robin cooper and massimo poesio ( fracas ) affiliation ( s ) : university of edinburgh e - mail : { cooper , poesio } @ cogsci . ed . ac . uk type : symposium section : logic introduction to modal logic name of lecturer : ramon jansana affiliation : department of logic , history and philosophy of science , universitat de barcelona , spain . e - mail : jansana @ cerber . ub . es type : introductory temporal logic name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : ian hodkinson affiliation ( s ) : imperial college london e - mail : imh @ doc . ic . ac . uk type : advanced descriptive complexity theory name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : flum , joerg affiliation ( s ) : mathematisches institut , universitaet freiburg , e - mail : flum @ sun1 . ruf . uni-freiburg . de type : advanced algebraizations of sentential logics name of lecturer : josep maria font affiliation : faculty of mathematics , university of barcelona e - mail : font @ cerber . mat . ub . es type : advanced some new trends in algebraic logic name of organizer : josep maria font affiliation : faculty of mathematics , university of barcelona e - mail : font @ cerber . mat . ub . es type : workshop advanced modal logic name of lecturers : patrick blackburn , maarten de rijke and y de venema . affiliation : patrick blackburn , ( universitat des saarlandes , saarbrucken ) , maarten de rijke ( cwi , amsterdam ) , and yde venema ( vrije universiteit , amsterdam ) . e - mail : patrick @ coli . uni-sb . de , maarten . de . rijke @ cwi . nl and yde @ cs . vu . nl type : advanced situation theory with applications name of organizer : keith devlin affiliations : saint mary 's college of california , moraga , and csli , stanford . e - mail : devlin @ stmarys-ca . edu type : symposium section : computation and logic logical frameworks name : d . basin , s . mathews ( saarbruecken ) e - mail : basin @ mpi-sb . mpg . de and sean @ mpi-sb . mpg . de type : introductory knowledge representation and logic name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : franz baader affiliation ( s ) : lufg theoretische informatik rwth aachen e - mail : baader @ informatik . rwth-aachen . de type : introductory deductive database name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : gerhard koestler affiliation ( s ) : universitaet augsburg e - mail : koestler @ uni-augsburg . de type : introductory programming with temporal logic name : howard barringer and dov gabbay affiliation ( s ) : the university of manchester imperial college of science , technology and medicine e - mail : howard @ man . cs . ac . uk and dg @ doc . ic . ac . uk type : advanced power structures and program semantics name of lecturer : chris brink . affiliation : mathematics department , university of cape town . email : cbrink @ maths . uct . ac . za . type : advanced . automated deduction in non - classical logics name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : lincoln a . wallen affiliation ( s ) : oxford university e - mail : lincoln . wallen @ comlab . ox . ac . uk type : advanced how to tame you logic ? maarten marx : university of amsterdam e - mail : marx @ ccsom . uva . nl szabolcs mikulas logic graduate school e - mail : mikulas @ fwi . uva . nl e - mail : h3762mik @ ella . hu type : advanced expressive nonmonotonic reasoning ( nmr ) name : franz baader affiliation ( s ) : lufg theoretische informatik , rwth aachen e - mail : baader @ informatik . rwth-aachen . de name : karl schlechta affiliation ( s ) : laboratoire d ' informatique de marseille , ura cnrs 178 universite de provence . e - mail : ks @ gyptis . univ-mrs . fr type : workshop logical formalisms for planning , plan recognition , and plan modification dr . susanne biundo german research center for artificial intelligence email : biundo @ dfki . uni-sb . de type : workshop methods for constructing and manipulating logical systems prof . dov m gabbay imperial college of science , technology and medicine email : dg @ doc . ic . ac . uk subject logic engineering : labelled deductive systems , and computer support for studying logics type : symposium section : computation partial evaluation name of lecturer ( s ) : neil jones affiliation ( s ) : diku , university of copenhagen e - mail : neil @ diku . dk type : introductory interactive development of proofs and programs name of lecturer ( s ) : christine paulin - mohring affiliation ( s ) : lip-cnrs ura 1398 - ecole normale superieure de lyon e - mail : christine . paulin @ lip . ens-lyon . fr type : advanced implementation of functional programming languages name of lecturer ( s ) : simon peyton jones affiliation ( s ) : department of computing science , university of glasgow e - mail : simonpj @ dcs . gla . ac . uk type : advanced section : language and computation formalizing and implementing syntactic theories name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : edward stabler and mark johnson affiliation ( s ) : edward stabler , ucla and mark johnson , brown university e - mail : stabler @ cognet . ucla . edu and mj @ cs . brown . edu type : introductory corpus - based models of language processing name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : rens bod and remko scha affiliation ( s ) : university of amsterdam institute for logic , language and computation department of computational linguistics e - mail : rens @ alf . let . uva . nl scha @ alf . let . uva . nl type : introductory automated deduction for logics of linguistic resources name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : michael moortgat affiliation ( s ) : research institute for language and speech ( ots ) e - mail : moortgat @ let . ruu . nl type : advanced topics in lexical - functional grammar name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : ronald kaplan and mary dalrymple affiliation ( s ) : xerox parc e - mail : kaplan @ parc . xerox . com ; dalrymple @ parc . xerox . com type : advanced categorial syntax and semantics name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : bob carpenter * and glyn morrill * * affiliation ( s ) : philosophy department , carnegie mellon university * department of computer systems and languages , polytechnic university of catalunya * * e - mail : carp @ lcl . cmu . edu * and morrill @ lsi . upc . es * * type : advanced lambek calculus and linear logic name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : v . michele abrusci affiliation ( s ) : universitat di roma la sapienza dipartimento di studi filosofici ed epistemologici e - mail : abrusci @ sci . uniroma1 . it type : advanced natural language generation name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : robert dale affiliation ( s ) : microsoft institute of advanced software technology e - mail : rdale @ microsoft . com type : advanced formal and computational phonology name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : t . mark ellison affiliation ( s ) : university of edinburgh ( till january , then inesc , lisbon ) e - mail : marke @ cogsci . ed . ac . uk type : workshop the computational lexicon name organizer : m . felisa verdejo affiliation ( s ) : universidad nacional educacion a distancia e - mail : felisa @ horacio . dieec . uned . es type : workshop proof theory , labelled deduction and natural language name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : professor ruth kempson affiliation ( s ) : school of oriental & african studies , university of london e - mail : kempson @ clus1 . ulcc . ac . uk type : symposium section : language head - driven phrase structure grammar name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : philip h . miller affiliation ( s ) : universite ' de lille 3 e - mail : pmiller @ ulb . ac . be type : introductory phrase structure typology and lfg name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : joan bresnan affiliation ( s ) : stanford university e - mail : bresnan @ csli . stanford . edu type : advanced aspectuality and event structure name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : henk verkuyl affiliation ( s ) : utrecht university ots e - mail : verkuyl @ let . ruu . nl type : introductory the acquisition of syntax and morphology name of lecturer : harald clahsen affiliation : department of language and linguistics , university of essex e - mail : harald @ essex . ac . uk type : advanced prosody , information , and grammatical architecture name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : dick oehrle affiliation ( s ) : department of linguistics , university of arizona e - mail : oehrle @ convx1 . ccit . arizona . edu type : advanced constraint based formalisms and grammar writing name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : jochen doerre and suresh manandhar affiliation ( s ) : university of stuttgart and university of edinburgh e - mail : suresh . manandhar @ ed . ac . uk jochen . doerre @ ims . uni-stuttgart . de type : workshop argument structure and linking theory name of lecturer ( s ) / organizer ( s ) : annie zaenen ( * ) and louisa sadler ( * * ) affiliation ( s ) : ( * ) rank xerox research centre and ( * * ) university of essex e - mail : ( * ) annie . zaenen @ xerox . fr and ( * * ) louisa @ essex . ac . uk type : symposium
