Subject: 

phonology & phonetics leiden in last : hil phonology papers i ( hil publications 1 ) . edited by harry van der hulst & jeroen van de weijer . the hague : holland academic graphics . pb . isbn 90-5569 - 008 - 2 . 431pp . jan 1995 . dfl 60 ( incl . p&p , excl . 6 % vat ) . e - mail : 72113 . 335 @ compuserve . com a collection of sixteen articles presented at the first hil phonology conference held in leiden in january 1993 . covers a wide variety of topics in segmental and metrical phonology . with an introductory text , presenting the most important theoretical developments in phonology of the last decade . contributors : harry van der hulst & jeroen van de weijer , outi bat - el , cynthia brown , mike davenport , daniel dor , j | rgen geilmann , janet grijzenhout , tracy hall , karijn helsloot , harry van der hulst & aone van engelenhoven , ren / e kager , blanca palmada , glyne piggott , krisztina polga / rdi , wendy sandler , elan dresher & harry van der hulst . new publication : the handbook of phonological theory , edited by john a . goldsmith ( university of chicago ) . 1995 . published by basil blackwell , oxford and cambridge ma . 32 chapters from 37 authors surveying the field of contemporary phonological theory . 992 pages . price is $ 79 . 95 ( hardcover ) in north america , and 70 pounds sterling elsewhere . blackwell 's email address for inspection copies is blkwell @ world . std . com in the us , and inspcopies @ cix . compulink . co . uk in the uk . pragmatics rudanko , juhani . 1993 . pragmatic approaches to shakespeare . essays on othello , coriolanus and timon of athens . lanham , new york and london : the university press of america . the book explores and develops methods of linguistic pragmatics that can , it is suggested , be applied to the study of dramatic dialogue in three shakespearean tragedies . as far as othello is concerned , the methods applied include topic analysis and case grammar analysis , the latter applied to soliloquies ; in the case of coriolanus there is a focus on speech act analysis , and as for timon of athens , it is proposed that politeness theory sheds light on themes of the play . it is argued that the practical application of methods of linguistic pragmatics contributes to a better understanding of the three plays as dramatic works of art and also leads to the further refinement of the methods themselves as tools of analysis . east asian langs koizumi , m . and ura , h . ( eds . ) formal approaches to japanese linguistics 1 : proceedings of the may 1994 mit conference mit working papers in linguistics # 24 1994 411 pp . syntax $ 15 + p / h ( $ 2 in us , else $ 3 ) . distributed by mitwpl , 20d-219 mit , cambridge ma 02139 ( mitwpl @ mit . edu ) papers by t . aikawa ; h . aoyagi ; c . brockett ; s . dubinsky ; y . endo ; y . kato ; r . kawashima ; a . kikuchi , m . oishi , & n . yusa ; n . kimura ; h . kitahara ; m . koizumi ; a . nakamura ; m . nakayama ; m . saito ; h . sakai ; k . - w . sohn ; n . tsujimura ; h . ura ; j . venditti & h . yamashita ; s . watanabe .
