Subject: efl positions

the following positions are available through the united states information agency : efl fellows english language teacher education program eastern / central europe , russia , ukraine who ? experienced efl / esl teacher trainers / educators and teachers of english for specific purposes , holding at least a master of arts degree in the field where ? albania , croatia , the czech republic , hungary , kazakhstan , latvia , lithuania , macedonia , poland , romania , russia , slovakia , slovenia , ukraine when ? late august , 1995 through late july , 1996 what ? efl fellows undertake a range of projects aimed at enhancing the quality of english language education throughout the region . some of their accomplishments since 1991 include : - organizing successful seminars to develop master teachers in slovenia ; - facilitating the organization of a nation-wide tesol affiliate in russia ; - organizing local teachers to develop efl materials for use in elementary and secondary school classrooms throughout latvia ; - sponsoring a variety of courses and lectures for in-service teachers at america house in kiev , ukraine , as featured on the front page of a major ukrainian daily ; - helping to develop and deliver model training programs for teachers in requalification programs in lithuania ; - assisting in the establishment of a nationwide assessment program for testing the language skills of teachers entering requalification programs in estonia . the efl fellow program is sponsored and administered by the u . s . information agency ( usia ) . for further details and application forms , write , fax , or e-mail the appropriate address below , or visit the usia booth in the employment clearinghouse at the tesol long beach conference center . for information concerning briefings on the efl fellow program at the convention , see the convention daily . the required interview may take place by appointment at usia in washington dc , through a prearranged teleconference with usia , or march 29 , 30 , 31 and the morning of april 1 at the employment clearinghouse at tesol . efl fellow program e-mail : fellows @ usia . gov applicant information fax : 202 / 401-1250 e / alp , room 304 phone : 202 / 401-6016 301 - 4th street , s . w . washington , dc 20547
