Subject: dave - check this one out ! !

dave , you have got to check out this program - i have made over $ 2200 in two days . - - - - - the fastest paying most explosive program ever ! ! what 's all the excitement ? ? well , just check this out ! unlimited $ 500 checks all day long no caps - paid daily next day fedex $ 20 bonuses on everyone you sponsor , they sponsor and so on each time they cycle - 6 levels deep - unlimited width digital cellular phone with air time no credit check , no security deposit pre-paid phone cards english and spanish instructions 8 . 9 cents per minute long distance 24 hours / 7 days - 1 + dialing - incoming 800 # - 6-second billing - no monthly charge 100 qualified leads opportunity seekers - help grow your business super discount pack legal referral service , groceries , medical , travel , vehicles , appliances , 250 , 000 + name-brand items + more no matter who you are , what you ' re doing now , your age or background or how much time you have , this program is for you ! 1 , 000s every day are securing their financial future . maybe you just want to take care of the credit cards , make the mortgage or car payment or set aside a few extra dollars towards a vacation , college fund or retirement . or perhaps you ' re looking for a complete change . then this home-based business is perfect . the low start-up cost and extremely high return make this the best business decision you ' ll ever make . no matter what your goal may be , fasttrac has exactly what you need . this program has an explosive " front-end " income with $ 500 checks paid daily and sent directly to you via fedex the very next day . and , it also has a huge " back-end " residual income with $ 20 bonuses paid weekly , 6 levels deep , unlimited width ! it all adds up to total financial security . on top of that , we include products that , as you saw above , are unbeatable in the industry today . so , whether you are brand new to this multi-billion dollar exploding industry called " network marketing " or an old pro with years of experience , fasttrac has every element needed to ensure your success . low cost creates easy duplication . fast pay . checks are sent daily via fedex . front-end income with $ 500 per cycle all day long - no cap . back-end income with $ 20 bonuses - the residual income you look for ! top - of-the - line products tele - sponsoring for instant growth ( you could cycle the first day ! ) . no meetings to attend - just use our live conference calls . 1 simple step . and a dedicated staff of professionals to help you very step of the way . get all the facts , check it out and then join us . our # 1 priority is your $ ucce $ $ ! http : / / members . theglobe . com / larranda / moneymaker / bizop . html larry ruth
