Subject: regarding the cable tv descrambler

( faq ) frequent asked questions - - cable tv descrambler ( do not hit the reply button , this message is generated automatically for those interested in the product . you ' ll receive this message only once ) hello ! ! ! = ) " thank you for requesting more information about the cable television descrambler . i ' ve been asked so many good questions that i left unanswered in my first letter . for that reason , i have put together this question & answer letter . i apologize in advance for not being able to answer each of your questions personally . the response has been overwhelming . " q : will the descrambler on fiber , tci , jarrod and satellite systems ? a : the answer is yes . in respect to satellite , you just get more stuff ! q : do i need a converter box ? a : this plan works with or without a converter box . specific instructions are included in my plans for each ! q : where can i find the 75pf - 100pf variable capacitor , radio shack doesn t have it ? a : many radio shacks do have it . however , you have two other options . 1st call a radio speciality supply store in your area that is listed in the yellow pages . 2nd you can order the capacitor from me . if needed i will mail you as many as you need for the price ( s ) below . i m not trying to make a profit out of it , just want to help you . i ll wrap it carefully and send it to you only if you send me a self addressed # 10 size padded envelope , with 64c postage affixed . 1-10 75pf - 100pf variable capacitor $ 11 ea . 20 - up . $ 9 ea . q : can the cable company detect that i have the box ? a : no , the signal descrambles right at the box and does not move back through the line . q : do i have to alter my existing cable system , television or vcr ? a : the answer is no . q : does this work with my remote control ? a : the answer is no . it 's a manual kind of thing . . . but very easy . have your spouse or significant other get off the couch to do the deed ! q : can you email me the plans ? a : no , the plans come with an easy to follow picture guide . q : does this work everywhere across the country ? a : i have friends in four states and one in england and brasil that use the same parts and the same plans and they are all successful . q : is this deal guaranteed ? a : yes , if you are unhappy for any reason i will refund your money . q : is this a rip off or a scam ? a : no , if it were i d charge $ 50 . 00 or more for the plans . be sure i not going to damn myself to hell by ripping you off for a measly $ 12 . 00 or so . q : when i order , when will i get my stuff ? a : i mail out all orders within 24 hours of receiving it . . . if you supply a self addressed , stamped return envelope with 55 cents postage affixed . q : again , how much does it cost to get the instructions plans and the easy to follow diagrams ? a : to order a set of the instructions send $ 12 . 00 by cash , check or money order payable to : rms enterprises send to : 50 lexington ave , suite 209 / new york city , ny 10010 . q : can you give me a list of the parts again ? a : yes . 1 - radio shack mini box ( part # 270-235 ) 1 - watt resistor 2 . 2k - 2 . 4k ohm ( part # 271-1325 ) 1 - 75pf - 100pf variable capacitor ( special order ) 2 - f61a chassis-type connectors ( part # 278-212 ) 12 " no . 12 solid copper wire 12 " rg59 coaxial cable q : i lost your address , could you give it to me again . a : 50 lexington ave , suite 209 / new york city , ny 10010 usa q : how can i pay for this ? a : check , money order or cash . sorry , no credit cards accepted . i look forward to your order . kindest personal regards , raul mendez
