Subject: the time for financial freedom is now ! !

abc super re-qualifier associated benefit consultants dear fellow entrepreneur , this letter is an urgent attempt to reach you ! we would like to hear from you within the next 24 to 48 hrs . hopefully , this has reached you at an opportune time for your immediate reply ! your attention is needed today as your new income can start in as little as 4 to 7 days from now ! we want you to hear first-hand about an exciting breakthrough in money-making opportunities . the abc super re - qualifier . this is the fast , simple and most powerful money-maker you have hoped to discover ! research has shown that a person 's potential for success increases by 80 % when receiving personalized instruction . we invite you to become involved in this easy , but ingenious program that involves personal instruction from our hand-picked organization members . each has the professional skill and expertise to personally guide you to your financial freedom . you can immediately utilize an existing program that accomplishes the following : 1 . generates pre-qualified prospects and send them to you . 2 . team support - live interactive conference calls 3 . 7 . 9 cpm long distance and virtual office . 4 . stocks and ships the product directly to your customers doors . 5 . pays you daily by overnight airborne express to your front door . 6 . permits you the realistic opportunity to earn $ 24 , 000 + per month ! 7 . produce new income on a spare time , part time or full time basis . you know what wealth has always been attained by the select few who were the first to take advantage of a new and powerful opportunity . that opportunity is here . . . . . it is the abc super re - qualifier ! the time for your financial freedom is now ! ! you must , however , be very serious and sincere about earning the income this program offers . for this reason , we have instructed our organization to devote time only to those who are genuine about improving their financial situation . are you seriously looking for a real program that produces large revenues ? if so , we urge you to call our office at the 24 hr - toll free number . 1-800 - 539-5648 leave us a message and we will be notified of your response . we will promptly return your call with all the information you will need to get you on your way to making an additional income yet this week ! remember . . . . . timing is everything ! ! to your success , john , cheryl , stephanie , bill , richard , judy & debra abc marketing team98 1-800 - 539-5648 " this is the program others try to copy . i highly recommend abc " - paul barron , ca " i ' ve never seen such a fast and simple way to make a large income " - alan louis , tx " abc is the perfect home-based business , and the money is great " - andrew kerr , ca " at last a real program . with fast money . . . thanks abc - s . herman , tx " i gave up on mlm , abc made me a believer again , within 2 weeks i have made $ 1 , 600 " - c . s
