Subject: profit on technology !

( pardon this intrusion , you were mentioned as someone who would have an interest in technology ) we are in the beginning of an exciting , " trillion dollar emerging market " in technology . in the next 3 minutes below , i will show you how to capitalize on this extraordinary trend ! here 's the trillion dollar trend in american business that i ' m speaking of ! you may have noticed over the past few months the incredible number of billion dollar mergers in us business . huge mergers like worldcom and mci , travelers and citicorp - the list is endless but they one common thread - services , services , services ! ! services like : travel services , banking services , telephony services , entertainment services and utility services . all of these services that you , i and everyone we know use , are being combined into one , trillion dollar market of " bundled services " . services have been the fastest growing segment of the us economy for a number of years but this " bundled services " market is new . these are services that everyone uses - everyday , offered from one , simple source ! why are " bundled services " such a big deal ? let 's add it up : banking services = hundreds of billions travel services = hundred of billions telephony services = $ 200 billion in us , $ 1 trillion worldwide ( internet access , paging , cellular , long distance , local dial , cable tv , digital satellite , voice mail , virtual office , web tv ) utilities ( being deregulated now ) : electricity = $ 250 billion , gas = $ 70 bill . internet commerce = $ 8 billion ( projected to reach $ 350 billion in 5 years ) in short , " bundled services " are every conceivable service that you , i and everyone we know uses . a war is waging for these huge markets with the largest service companies in the world , and millions will be made from those entrepreneurs who position themselves in front of this trend . these service / technology companies are buying companies left and right so they can offer more services . these companies are fighting tooth and nail because they know something most of us do n't know . as a gte study reveals , when a customer enrolls on a single service they will stay on that service for an average of 2 years , with two services the average moves to 4 years . when a customer enrolls on 3 services , they will stay with that provider for an incredible average of 20 years ! imagine the cash flow on just one customer using 3 - 6-10 - 20 services , for 20 years . what would that cash flow be worth ? a whole bunch , and that 's why the race is on . the first company to get customers on 3 or more services - wins ! that 's why these service companies are spending billions in advertising to attract customers . but . . . these huge , traditional service companies have a serious problem . they can not get directly in front these customers . even if they could send someone directly over , would they find them at home ? if they were at home , would they let them in their house ? people decide on which service companies they wish to use , based on recommendations from people they know ! here 's my point : who better to make recommendations for services than from the people you know ! we do this unconsciously everyday anyway - now you can get paid for it ! we simply , and very passively , offer people we know , a " free package of services " designed to save them money and make their life simpler . the more they use the more they save ! this package will make their life easier with single billing for all the services they use . we can save them money by leveraging our parent companies $ 1 . 6 billion dollar buying power to offer the most competitive prices available anywhere for this package ! it gets even better ! we are not talking about no-name companies with questionable service . we are talking about the biggest service and technology companies in the world ! companies that are already a household name . these companies realize that " word of mouth " is the best way to get in front of customers . your associates & friends win , and you win ! they handle all the service / customer support - we just make the recommendation ( this could be as simple as passing out a brochure ) . services can create a true residual income ( no inventories here ! ) . what could an extra $ 10 - $ 50 , 000 a year do for your family - for the next 20 years ? with a more concentrated effort , the potential is " income replacement " and beyond . in addition to the monthly residual income you will earn on these services , you may also earn over rides on other re-marketers . the system of delivering services in the next evolutionary step in networking - we call it " internetworking " . the reason we call it " internetworking " is that everything can be accomplished via the internet . given the trillion dollar size of this untapped market , our financial backing and billion dollar partners , we project that we will be a billion dollar company and household name in 3 years . you are learning about us in the first 30 days ! timing is everything . imagine if you talked with an associate who has numerous property management contacts . let 's say this contact of yours knew several property managers who own thousands of rental units . the property management company could offer these services to thousands of tenants . the property management company earns a fortune , your associate earns a fortune and you earn a fortune . this is leveraged income ! there are hundreds of ways to market this because everyone uses these services . as a matter of fact , who do you know that would not be interested in saving money on their service bills , with the same top grade service companies and have the convenience of a single bill ? in summary , bundled services are a trillion dollar untapped market , ripe for entrepreneurs with vision . customers get the same quality service from the largest providers but now through one source ! because of our buying power and the fact you afford to give bigger discounts when customers are using more services ( bundled ) , it 's a win / win situation , and represents one of the largest business trends of this century . . . food for thought . . . social psychologists tell us that each person runs into at least two opportunities that could in fact , reshape their lives . the question here is this , is this your first opportunity or your last ? an interesting question . with a simple investigation , you will determine this opportunity and company , is for real . if you ' re too busy , that 's exactly why you need to do this . in three years or less , you can create the lifestyle you wish , with the effort of course . get the facts and make an informed decision . please visit our site now : http : / / www . vwcs . com / pauld thank you for your attention , the wave 4 group ps : this is a one time mailing
