Subject: the challenge

from the desk of robert g . allen dear nlpeople first let me ask you this question . do you want to build an extra stream of income ? if you said , " yes ! " then let me show you how you can began living your dreams this year instead of waiting until it 's too late . if you are not interested in this , please forgive the intrusion and delete this letter , and i will not contact you again . as it says on the letterhead , my name is robert allen . i ' m well known for my books , nothing down and creating wealth ( which were # 1 new york times best sellers ) and my recent audio programs , road to wealth and multiple streams of income . according to independent research , these books and programs have created hundreds of millionaires . my third book is called " the challenge . " it 's a true story of how i selected a woman from an unemployment line and taught her my success secrets . ninety days later , she had earned $ 5 , 000 and in a year , had earned $ 100 , 000 . i ' m now working on my next challenge . i call it the multiple streams of income challenge . here 's the challenge . as a test , i am selecting a small group of people and teaching them a brand new way of earning extra streams of income . i want you to work with me on this next challenge . if you join with me , you will be working with me and my team of highly successful people . our financial success is tied directly to you . if you are successful , then we are successful . it 's that simple . i do n't want to take up your time if you ' re not really looking for a way to add an extra stream of income . therefore , i ' ve recorded a message on a 24 hour voice mail number that gives the basic information . here 's the number . 801-235 - 0600 if you have access to a fax machine then also call our fax on demand at 415-995 - 2365 . this will give you a complete overview of our company . check out our web site at www . usana . com call this hotline number , retrieve this fax , and check out this web site today ! you will be glad you did . to have someone contact you with information on joining , please send a request to plumb111 @ aristotle . net and someone will respond as soon as possible . if you wish to be contacted by phone , please include you phone number and area code . massive success bob allen
