Subject: sound patterns of spontaneous speech

sposs sound patterns of spontaneous speech : production and perception aix en provence , france , 24-25 - 26 september 1998 the european speech communication association ( esca ) has identified the area of sound patterns of spontaneous speech as an important area of current research . an esca workshop is being organised in aix en provence with this focus . contributions should describe and explain spontaneous speech processes and their perception at the word , phrase and sentence level in a wide variety of languages . workshop theme : during the last decades , descriptions of spontaneous speech mainly focused on the reduction and assimilation of speech segments to adjacent segment . reduction and assimilatory processes of spontaneous speech are the products of gesture economy and physical constraints . they are also constrained by the phonetic , phonological , and prosodic specificities of languages and dialects . therefore , this workshop is aimed at contributing to the description and the understanding of the production and perception of spontaneous speech processes in various languages . the workshop will be centred around the following topics : - acoustic and articulatory analysis of spontaneous-speech processes - prosodic information and spontaneous-speech processes - perception of reduction and assimilatory processes - modelling format of the workshop : this will be an international workshop within a limited number of active participants , i . e . priority will be given to persons with accepted papers . each session will be introduced by a tutorial presentation by an invited expert . most papers will be presented in plenary sessions with time for demonstration and discussion . other papers will be presented in poster sessions followed by plenary discussions . workshop site : sposs will take place in a conference centre located in the area of aix en provence in ten minute ` s drive from aix en provence . bus transportation to and from the centre will be provided every day . detailed logistic information will be distributed to all registered participants . proceedings and languages : the contributions to the workshop will be published in a workshop proceedings which will be available to participants at the time of the workshop . as the new french law ( loi toubon ) requires , they will include french abstracts . the official languages of the workshop will be english and french . registration fees : the fee for the workshop , including proceedings , lunches , bus tranportation to and from the conference centre and the sposs reception is 1700 ff , with a 300 ff reduction for esca members . students with a certificate of their status will pay 750 ff with a 100 ff reduction for esca student members . registration for non - esca members includes a complementary membership for 1998 . important dates : march 31 , 1998 : preliminary registration and deadline for submission of title and abstract . may 15 , 1998 : notification of acceptance , imstructions for authors , information on accomodation . september 1 , 1998 : imperative deadline for early registration and for 4 page camera-ready paper . september 10 , 1998 : preliminary program e-mailed . september 24-25 - 26 : worshop . european speech communication association ( esca ) : esca is a non-profit organisation for promoting speech communication science and technology in a european context . a limited number of grants for participation is available . more information is available though : e-mail : esca @ icp . inpg . fr hrrp : / / ophale . icp . inpg . fr / esca / international scientific committee : andrew butcher ( aust ) olle engstrand ( sw ) wolfgang hess ( ger ) klaus kohler ( ger ) florien koopmans - van beinum ( ned ) bjorn lindblom ( sw ) joaquim llisterri ( sp ) francis nolan ( uk ) john ohala ( usa ) louis pols ( ned ) willy serniclaes ( bel ) jacqueline vaissiere ( fr ) organising committee : danielle duez , lpl bernard teston , lpl marie - helene casanova-rossi , lpl annie rival , lpl martin brousseau , lpl worshop secretariat : for all correspondence concerning the workshop , please use the following address : sposs att . danielle duez laboratoire parole et langage , cnrs esa-6057 universite de provence 29 , avenue robert shuman 13621 aix en provence france . phone : + 33 04 42 95 36 23 fax : + 33 04 42 59 50 96 e-mail : sposs @ lpl . univ-aix . fr furteher information will only be sent to ( preliminary ) registerd participants . updated information will also be available on : http : / / www . lpl . univ-aix . fr .
