Subject: icslp abstracts due 1 may 98

second call for papers for icslp ' 98 the 5th international conference on spoken language processing sydney convention & exhibition centre darling harbour , sydney australia 30th november 1998 - - 4th december 1998 hosted by the australian speech science & technology association inc . ( incorporating the 7th australian speech science & technology conference ) conference url http : / / cslab . anu . edu . au / icslp98 note : note : note : note : friday 1st may , 1998 paper summaries / abstracts due submission procedure submissions are invited in any of the following technical topic areas . a . human speech production , acoustic - phonetics and articulatory models b . human speech perception c . language acquisition : first and second languages d . spoken language and dialogue modelling ; dialogue systems e . isolated word recognition f . large vocabulary continuous speech recognition g . utterance verification and word spotting h . speaker adaptation and normalisation in speech recognition i . speaker and language recognition ; dialects and speaking styles j . multilingual perception and recognition k . signal processing , speech analysis and feature extraction l . robust speech processing in adverse environments m . hidden markov model techniques n . artificial neural networks , fuzzy and evolutionary algorithms o . spoken language understanding systems p . text - to - speech synthesis q . prosody and emotion ; focus , stress and accent r . speech coding s . spoken language generation systems ; concept - to - speech t . spoken language translation systems u . analysis of speech and hearing disorders v . speech processing for the speech - impaired and hearing - impaired w . segmentation , labelling and speech corpora x . speech technology applications and human - machine interfaces y . spoken language processing and multimodality z . other areas of spoken language processing format of submission acceptance of papers for presentation at the conference will be on the basis of reviewed summaries . you should submit a summary of your paper comprising approximately 500 words . at the top of the page , please specify the following corresponding author contact details : full name full postal mail address email address fax number phone number proposed paper details : paper title author list topic id ( a - z ) four additional keywords presentation preference ( oral , poster , student day ) the topic id should be a single category from the topic list specified as an alphabetic letter ; if your submission falls within the broad area of spoken language processing but is not explicitly represented in the topic list , please use the z category . the four additional keywords are requested in order to assist the programme committee in assigning reviewers . means of submission ( of summaries / abstracts ) electronic submission of summaries via the world wide web is preferred : a summary submission form is available at http : / / cslab . anu . edu . au / icslp98 . alternatively , a pro-forma for email submission can be obtained from this url or by emailing " icslp98 @ tourhosts . com . au " ; email submissions should be sent to " icslp98 @ one . net . au " . if electronic submission is not possible , postal submissions ( 4 copies ) to the icslp ' 98 secretariat address specified below will be accepted provided that they adhere to the above format . please do not use fax . restrictions on submissions ( of summaries / abstracts ) please note that only ascii summaries written in english will be accepted : do not include any attachments , graphics , or embedded formatting commands . given the large number of submissions we expect to receive , anything that cannot be printed directly will be rejected without consideration . acknowledgement of receipt you should receive an acknowledgement of receipt within 72 hours of electronically submitting your summary . if this does not happen , then you should resend your submission by email to " icslp98 @ one . net . au " with the word resubmission at the beginning of the subject line . if an acknowledgement is still not forthcoming , an email problem should be assumed , and the summary submitted by fax . please do not resubmit or send by fax for any other reasons than lack of acknowledgement from the conference . conditions of acceptance all papers must be presented in english by one of the listed authors ; that author will be required to register no later than the full-paper submission date . summaries will not be accepted after the submission date . please note : the deadline of may 1st for receipt of submissions is firm . the tight scheduling of our review process means that late submissions cannot be accepted . student day submissions students wishing to submit papers for the sst student day should submit summaries as above . these submissions will be separately reviewed and published under the banner of the 7th australian speech science & technology conference and will also be included on the cdrom containing the icslp ' 98 proceedings . submission addresses world wide web : via " http : / / cslab . anu . edu . au / icslp98 e - mail submission : icslp98 @ one . net . au postal : icslp ' 98 secretariat , gpo box 128 , sydney nsw 2001 , australia technical queries : robert dale ( rdale @ mpce . mq . edu . au ) general information : " icslp98 @ tourhosts . com . au " conference secretariat tour hosts conference & exhibition organisers gpo box 128 sydney nsw 2001 , australia important dates friday 1st may , 1998 paper summaries due for review friday 26th june , 1998 acceptance notification friday 21st august , 1998 deadline for full-paper submission conference coordinating committee peter blamey ( financial ) university of melbourne bruce millar ( technical ) australian national university julie vonwiller ( organisation ) university of sydney / appen technical programme committee robert dale ( chair ) microsoft research institute roberto togneri ( deputy chair ) university of western australia denis burnham university of new south wales michael wagner university of canberra sst student day committee franz clermont ( co - chair ) university of new south wales michael barlow ( co - chair ) university of new south wales ingrid ahmer university of south australia robin king university of south australia parham mokhtari university of new south wales international advisory board souguil j . m . ann , seoul national university , korea jens p . blauert , ruhr - universitaet , germany michael brooke , university of bath , united kingdom timothy bunnell , university of delaware , usa anne cutler , max - planck - institute for psycholinguistics , netherlands hiroya fujisaki , science university of tokyo , japan julia hirschberg , at&t bell laboratories , usa bjorn granstrom , royal institute of technology , sweden lin - shan lee , national taiwan university , taiwan roger moore , defence research authority , united kingdom john j . ohala , university of california , berkeley , usa louis c . w . pols , university of amsterdam , netherlands christel sorin , centre nationale d ' etude des telecommunications , france yoh ' ichi tohkura , atr human information processing laboratories , japan jialu zhang , academia sinica , china australian consultative committee yianni attikiouzel , university of western australia robert bogner , university of adelaide john clark , university of western sydney mary o'kane , university of adelaide roger wales , university of melbourne and representatives of financial sponsors . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - karen croot school of communication sciences & disorders faculty of health sciences , university of sydney po box 170 lidcombe nsw australia 2141 phone : 02 9351-9694 ( within australia ) , + 61 2 9351-9694 ( international ) . facsimile : 02 9351-9977
