Subject: special issue machine translation : final call for papers

final call for papers the machine translation journal special issue on anaphora resolution in machine translation guest editor : ruslan mitkov ( university of wolverhampton ) the interpretation of anaphora is crucial for the successful operation of a machine translation system . in particular , it is essential to resolve the anaphoric relation when translating into languages which mark the gender of pronouns . unfortunately , the majority of mt systems developed in the seventies and eighties did not adequately address the problems of identifying the antecedents of anaphors in the source language and producing the anaphoric " equivalents " in the target language . as a consequence , only a limited number of mt systems have been successful in translating discourse , rather than isolated sentences . one reason for this situation is that in addition to anaphora resolution being itself a very complicated task , translation adds a further dimension to the problem in that the reference to a discourse entity encoded by a source language anaphor by the speaker ( or writer ) has not only to be identified by the hearer ( translator or translation system ) but also re-encoded in a coreferential expression in a different language . the nineties have seen an intensification of research efforts in anaphora resolution in machine translation . this can be seen in the growing number of related projects which have reported promising new results ( e . g . wada 1990 ; leass & schwall 1991 ; nakaiwa & ikehara 1992 ; chen 1992 ; saggion & carvalho 1994 ; preuss et al . 1994 ; nakaiwa et al . 1994 ; nakaiwa et al . 1995 ; nakaiwa & ikehara 1995 ; mitkov et al . 1995 ; mitkov et al . 1997 ; geldbach 1997 ) . however , we still feel that additional work is needed to highlight and further explore the specifics of the problem in operational mt environments , including fully automatic machine translation and machine - aided translation . we are inviting high-quality , original research papers describing recent advances in anaphora resolution in machine translation . topics to be addressed include ( but are not limited to ) - operational anaphora resolution components in machine translation - resolution of zero pronouns in mt environments - lexical transfer of anaphors across languages - to what extent have the latest trends towards knowledge-poor , corpus - driven and robust approaches in anaphora resolution , been called upon in machine translation ? - what are the most scalable contributory factors / resolution strategies in mt ? - what makes anaphora resolution a more complex task in machine translation ? - multilingual anaphora resolution submission and format articles should be submitted directly to the publishers , either by e-mail to ellen . klink @ wkap . nl , with the subject header " submission to coat anaphora special issue " , or in hard-copy to machine translation editorial office kluwer academic publishers p . o . box 990 3300 az dordrecht the netherlands or machine translation editorial office kluwer academic publishers p . o . box 230 accord , ma 02018-023 u . s . a . the submission deadline is 15 may 1998 . the journal is typeset using latex , so the preferred medium for submission of articles in electronic format is latex source ( using the kluwer style file ) or gzipped postscript . for more details , please consult the journal 's web pages : home page : http : / / kapis . www . wkap . nl / journalhome . htm / 0922-6567 instructions for authors : http : / / kapis . www . wkap . nl / kaphtml . htm / ifa0922-6567 latex style files : http : / / kapis . www . wkap . nl / jrnlstyle . htm / 0922-6567 if submitting hard-copy , four copies of the paper are required . the length of the papers should be approximately 10-20 pages if using the kluwer style file ( around 20k words ) . authors are also requested to send a copy of an abstract of not more than 200 words to the guest editor r . mitkov @ wlv . ac . uk or in hard-copy to ruslan mitkov , school of languages and european studies , university of wolverhampton , stafford st . , wolverhampton wv1 1sb , united kingdom . guest editor : ruslan mitkov school of languages and european studies university of wolverhampton stafford st . wolverhampton wv1 1sb telephone ( 44-1902 ) 322471 fax ( 44-1902 ) 322739 email r . mitkov @ wlv . ac . uk guest editorial board : breck baldwin ( university of pennsylvania , philadelphia ) david carter ( sri international , cambridge ) guenter goerz ( university of nuernberg / erlangen ) lynette hirschman ( mitre , mclean ) richard kittredge ( university of montreal ) susan luperfoy ( mitre , mclean ) tony mcenery ( lancaster university ) ruslan mitkov ( university of wolverhampton ) frederique segond ( ranx xerox , grenoble ) harold somers ( umist , manchester ) keh - yih su ( national tsing hua university , taiwan ) yorick wilks ( university of sheffield )
