Subject: teaching linguistics ( grammar )

* * * call for papers * * * * * * call for papers * * * " teaching linguistics " symposium on teaching grammar in conjunction with the twenty - second annual conference on the teaching of foreign languages and literatures . youngstown state university youngstown , ohio , october 24 , 1998 plenary speaker : * robert dekeyser , university of pittsburgh , linguistics dept . dr . dekeyser will speak on " focus on form " proposals on topics related to the teaching of grammar in first , second and foreign languages are welcomed . college and university faculty , high school teachers , and graduate students are invited to submit proposals . possible areas of focus might include , but are not limited to : pedagogical grammars , history of grammatical teaching , normatism / prescriptivism , pros and cons of formal instruction , and all aspects of grammatical teaching , such as methods , social aspects , audiences , situations of teaching ( l1 , l2 , fl ) , goals and objectives , etc . special attention will be given to papers dealing with the position and role of grammatical instruction within the curriculum . * all disciplinary approaches are welcome , such as language arts teaching ; second language acquisition : theory , research and practice ; pedagogical approaches and classroom strategies ; techniques and materials ; innovations in media technology ; testing and assessment ; ethnographic studies . this is not , however , a symposium on universal grammar . * abstracts : presentations should be 30 minutes long , including time for questions . send three copies of a one - page , double spaced abstract to the symposium committee ( address below ) by june 1 , 1998 . e - mail submissions ( ascii only , no attachments ) are ok . include contact information on a cover sheet attached to the abstract . the abstract should contain no information that identifies the presenter . notification will be mailed no later than july 1 , 1998 . * registration : all participants , including presenters , are required to register to the conference , however , a lower fee for the symposium day alone will be available . registration materials will be mailed in early august 1998 . all accepted presenters will receive the conference registration mailings . those interested in attending , but not presenting need only request to be put on the mailing list . graduate students needing crash space or with financial problems should mention this fact in the cover sheet . * the conference on the teaching of foreign languages and literatures will feature two plenary speakers : helena curtain ( u . of wisconsin ) who will speak on fles and david d . herren ( middlebury college ) who will speak on call . besides the plenary speakers the conference will feature over thirty presentations and workshops on various aspects of teaching foreign languages and literature . * abstracts and requests for information about the teaching grammar symposium should be sent to : salvatore attardo & steven brown english department , debartolo hall 202 youngstown state university youngstown oh 44555 usa sattardo @ cc . ysu . edu srbrown @ cc . ysu . edu
