Subject: translation

translation into the second language stuart campbell paper 0 582 30188 2 224 pages 1998 applied linguistics and language study series longman the dynamics of immigration , international commerce and the postcolonial world make it inevitable that much translation is done into a second language , despite the prevailing wisdom that translators should only work into their mother tongue . this book is the first study to explore the phenomenon of translation into a second language in a way that will interest applied linguists , translators and translation teachers , and esol teachers working with advanced level students . rather than seeing translation into a second language as deficient output , this study adopts an interlanguage framework to consider l2 translation as the product of developing competence ; learning to translate is seen as a special variety of second language acquisition . through carefully worked case studies , separate components of translation competence are identified , among them the ability to create stylistically authentic texts in english , the ability to monitor and edit output , and the psychological attitudes that the translator brings to the task . while the case studies mainly deal with arabic speakers undergoing translator training in australia , the conclusions will have implications for translation into a second language , especially english , around the world . ' translation into the second language ' is firmly grounded in empirical research , and in this regard it serves as a stimulus and a methodological guide for further research . it will be a valuable addition for advanced undergraduate and postgraduate students of applied linguistics , translation theory , bilingualism and second language acquisition as well as those involved in teaching or practising translation at a professional level . stuart campbell associate professor in language studies , and director of the language acquisition research centre at the university of western sydney macarthur . further information on the books published in this series , and the table of contents for this title can be viewed at the longman linguistics on-line catalogue at : http : / / www . awl-he . com / linguistics for a complete listing of our world-wide offices , please click below : http : / / www . awl-he . com / offices available for review
