Subject: call : nystesol applied linguistics winter conference

first call for proposals ( please forward to interested lists and individuals ) 21st annual nystesol applied linguistics winter conference lehman college / cuny bronx , ny saturday , january 23rd , 1999 esol standards : achievements , assessments - - - - - - - keynote speaker : eric nadelstern of the international h . s . at laguardia community college , queens will talk on " performance - based assessment standards for esol students and their teachers . " - - - - - - - proposals due : * * * weds . sept . 23 * * * mail to ms . bhar arsoy , proposal chair fort george station , ps box 251 new york , ny 10040 general suggested topics * academic achievement of esol students in language learning and other content areas * articulation efforts across grades or levels * standards for admission , retention , promotion , and graduation of esol students and their impact at all levels of education * assessment practices , models , and instruments for esol students in language learning and other content areas : analyses , innovations , and critiques * esol teacher education : standards for entrance , retention , promotion , and graduation * using technology to support and assess achievement * achieving and assessing progmatic and sociolinguistic development instructions for proposal submissions : please follow exactly ! individual papers , workshops , and publishers demonstrations are alloted 45 minutes ( publishers and other commercial presenteras are required to pay the exhibitor 's fee ) panel sessions ( several speakers - - one theme ) can be scheduled as either one 45 minute session or one 1 1 / 2 hour session . all presenters must register for the conference . while all presentations will be considered , those which deal directly with the topic will be given preference . 1 . submit 8 copies of a summary of your proposals , maximum length 1 page double spaced . neither your name nor affiliation should appear anywhere on these 8 copies . however , in the upper left hand corner of each copy , you should give the following information : ( 1 ) title , ( 2 ) type of presentation ( paper , workshop , publisher , or panel ) ; ( 3 ) length ( 45 min . or 1 1 / 2 hours ) ; ( 4 ) intended audience ( s ) ( prek , elementary , secondary , adult , higher ed , bilingual , mainstream , teacher educators , materials / curriculum developers , researchers ) ; and ( 5 ) av equipment needed 2 . on a 9th copy ( identical to the copies in # 1 ) , in the upper-right hand corner , place your name , affiliation , mailing address , phone , fax & e-mail , and times you will not be available to present on january 23 ( a . m . or p . m , ) 3 . in addition , submit a 50 word ( max ) abstact of your presentation to appear in the conference program . include the name ( s ) of presenter ( s ) , affiliation ( s ) , title and type of presnation , length , and intended audience ( s ) . 4 . absolutely no e-mail or faxes accepted . snail mair only . please ensure that your proposal packet reaches the proposal chair no later than wed . . sept . 23 , 1998 . questions should be addressed to dr . joye smith , alsig chair 718 960 7242 5 . some presentations submitted may look promissing , but the summary and title are occasionally unclear , unattractive to the intended audience or inconsistent with one another . please make every effort to create clear , well-written , engaging , and appropriate titles and summaries . please forward this message to interested lists or individuals michael newman assistant professor of applied linguistics dept . of linguistics and communications disorders queens college / cuny flushing , ny 11367
