Subject: asia - pacific language special issue

call for papers special issue : " language research in the pacific - asia region " http : / / hiplab . newcastle . edu . au / pacific / language / south pacific journal of psychology http : / / hiplab . newcastle . edu . au / pacific / language editorial group : max coltheart ( behavioural science , macquarie ) malti patel ( computing , macquarie ) marcus taft ( psychology , new south wales ) paul watters ( psychology , newcastle ) . on behalf of the editorial board of the south pacific journal of psychology , the language editorial group is soliciting contributions for a special issue , volume 10 ( 2 ) , on language research in the pacific - asia region . the high density of indigenous and non-indigenous languages spoken and written in the pacific - asia region makes it a fertile area for language research , especially in psycholinguistics and sociolinguistics . in addition , important advances in more general areas of language processing and linguistics , such as the computer modelling of language , are increasingly being made in the pacific - asia region . this special issue is intended as an inter-disciplinary showcase for research on all aspects of language being conducted in the region . all submissions will be peer-reviewed . the special issue will also be technologically innovative , with both paper and full-article electronic formats available to subscribers . papers should be written in apa style , doubled spaced , and submitted in triplicate to : paul a . watters department of computing school of mathematics , physics , computing and electronics macquarie university nsw 2109 australia alternatively , manuscripts prepared in text , adobe postscript or acrobat , or microsoft word format can be submitted electronically to pwatters @ mpce . mq . edu . au using an appropriate encoding format ( uuencode or metamail ) . the deadline for submission is 31st august , 1998 , with the special issue available in november / december , 1998 .
