Subject: 2nd language acquisition

strategies in learning and using a second language andrew d . cohen professor in the department of english as a second language , university of minnesota . paper 0-582 - 30588 - 8 312 pages 1998 applied linguistics and language study series longman ' strategies in learning and using a second language ' explores the topic of learner strategies - the ways in which language learners engage with the process of learning and communicating in a new language . the introduction to the book sets out the main theoretical issues , distinguishing language learning from language use strategies , and describing the main research methods for their investigation . the author presents innovative research linking the use of task-specific strategies with language performance . the volume then presents empirical research investigating the languages multilinguals select for their verbalized thoughts during language learning and language use . finally , the author presents empirical research focusing on the strategies learners use in language test-taking contexts . the volume is intended primarily for language teachers and researchers , as well as for administrators of second language programs . it is also highly suitable for undergraduate and postgraduate students of applied linguistics and will be of interest to foreign language students , stimulating them to reflect on their strategies for learning and using a second language . the chapters present questions and raise areas for further discussion and study , making the book suitable for those new to the field . at the same time , the provision of important new research will appeal to those with more advanced knowledge in the field . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - errors in language learning and use carl james senior lecturer in the linguistics department at the university of wales , bangor . paper 0-582 - 25763 - 8 320 pages 1998 applied linguistics and language study series longman ' errors in language learning and use ' is an up-to - date introduction and guide to the study of errors in language , and is also a critical survey of previous work . error analysis occupies a central position within applied linguistics , and seeks to clarify questions such as ` does correctness matter ? ' , ` is it more important to speak fluently and write imaginatively or to communicate one 's message ? ' this book provides a scholarly and well-illustrated theoretical and historical background to the field of error analysis . a range of relevant questions is addressed such as whether native speakers make errors , and whether ` good english ' for the native speaker is also good for the foreign learner . the reader is led from definitions of error and related concepts , to categorization of types of linguistic deviance , discussion of error gravities , the utility of teacher correction and towards writing learner profiles . throughout , the book is guided by considerable practical experience in language education in a range of classroom contexts worldwide . further information on the books published in this series , and the table of contents for these titles can be viewed at the longman linguistics on-line catalogue at : http : / / www . awl-he . com / linguistics for a complete listing of our world-wide offices , please click below : http : / / www . awl-he . com / offices
