Subject: lexical semantics systems - date changes

change of date and extended deadline - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - wlss98 ii workshop on lexical semantics systems pisa , 6 - 7 april 1998 scuola normale superiore - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - organized by celi , ilc , itc-irst and scuola normale superiore with the support of university of pisa and xerox research centre europe - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - http : / / celi . sns . it / ~ wlss98 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - invited speakers ( provisional list ) gennaro chierchia ( university of milan ) christiane fellbaum ( princeton university ) ewan klein ( university of edimburgh ) hinrich schuetze ( rank xerox ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - call for papers wlss98 is organized by centro per l ' elaborazione del linguaggio ed informazione ( celi ) , istituto di linguistica computazionale ( ilc ) , istituto per la ricerca scientifica e tecnologia ( itc-irst ) and scuola normale superiore ( pisa ) , and will take place in pisa on the 6 - 7 april 1998 ( instead of the 19-20 march , as it was announced in previous messages ) . wlss workshops aim at bringing together italian and international scholars , active in both theoretical and applicative domains of research in lexical semantics , with the goals of : - providing an overview of the state of the art and exchanging information on ongoing and planned activities ; - bridging the gap and enhance the trade-off between theoretical models of lexical knowledge and applications in nlp systems . these goals are justified : - by the increasingly central position that lexical knowledge , and in particular lexical semantics , is assuming within the general architecture of cognitive systems , both as a dynamic module which interact with other non-linguistic sources of knowledge , and as a component playing a major role in interfacing syntax and semantics ; - by the fact that lexical resources ( such as tagged corpora , computational dictionaries , machine readable dictionaries , wordnets ) are among the most crucial aspects of practical nlp systems . issues concerning the structure , the representation , the development , and the acquisition of lexical knowledge are thus of the uttermost importance when building nlp systems . lexical systems also play a crucial role in the design and construction of multilingual systems , a key feature at least for applications designed to operate in a distributed , non - centralized environment such as the world wide web . this second edition of wlss will focus on the portability and reusability of lexical systems , and on the issue of word sense disambiguation and semantic tagging . we also encourage the submission of papers concerning more general issues about linguistic lexical semantics and its interaction with computational lexicography . abstracts are invited for 30 - minute talks . here follows a non - exhaustive list of topics which could be addressed : * lexical resources for semantic tagging and word sense disambiguation . * use of lexicons and thesauruses to improve information retrieval / extraction techniques . * automatic acquisition and management of lexical resources . * reusability and tuning of existing lexical resources for novel tasks . * trade offs between generic and domain specific lexical resources . * multilingual lexical resources . * description and evaluation of existing tools and systems . * evaluation of different representation formats . * issues in computational lexical semantics and computational lexicography . * issues in the design , construction and use of lexical resources . * architecture for a cognitive plausible lexicon * lexical representation and the interface with syntactic processes * * change * * extended deadline for submissions * * change * * only electronic submissions are accepted . abstracts should not exceed 2 pages in length , in postscript or ascii format , and should be sent to the following address : wlss98 @ celi . sns . it . separate information should be sent , including the title of the talk , author 's name , address and affiliation . submissions must be limited to a maximum of one individual and one joint abstract per author . the deadline is : 20 january 1998 . the program committee intends to publish a selection of the papers presented at the conference . * * change * * important dates * * change * * submission of abstracts : 20 january 1998 notification of acceptance : 28 february 1998 conference : 6 - 7 april 1998 program committee pier marco bertinetto ( scuola normale superiore ) nicoletta calzolari ( ilc ) luca dini ( celi ) vittorio di tomaso ( celi ) alessandro lenci ( scuola normale superiore ) bernardo magnini ( irst ) fabio pianesi ( irst ) frederique segond ( xrce ) antonio zampolli ( ilc ) contact persons for every further information please contact the conference secretariat : vittorio di tomaso celi ditomaso @ sns . it alessandro lenci scuola normale superiore lenci @ alphalinguistica . sns . it scuola normale superiore laboratorio di linguistica piazza dei cavalieri 7 56126 pisa ( italy ) tel . + 39 50 509219 fax : + 39 50 563513 more information on the workshop and a copy of this call for papers is available on the web at the following address : http : / / celi . sns . it / ~ wlss98
