Subject: optimality theory

optimal viewpoints , stuart davis , editor . 138 pp . prepaid orders by u . s . check or money order . $ 15 . 00 + p&h : $ 3 . 50 us , $ 5 . 00 can , $ 5 . 50 other . iulc publications , 720 e . atwater ave . , bloomington , in 47401 usa . < iulc @ indiana . edu > http : / / php . indiana . edu / ~ iulc / this year the indiana university linguistics club celebrates its 30th anniversary with the publication of _ optimal viewpoints _ representing current work on optimality theory by students , faculty and alumni of the department of linguistics at indiana university . the papers in the volume cover phenomena of current theoretical interest in morphology , first language acquisition , phonology and syntax . contents are as follows : _ the optimal compound : optimality theory and the typology of synthetic compounds _ . heather anderson offers an ot analysis of word order in synthetic compounds by demonstrating how the difference between vo and ov languages with respect to synthetic compounds falls out from the ranking of the relevant constraints in an optimality-theoretic grammar . _ the representation of on - glides in american english : evidence from phonologically disordered systems _ . in this ot application to english acquisitional phonology , jessica barlow examines the productions of consonant-glide clusters from several children over a period of time , and relates her findings to the issue of whether the glide in a consonant-glide sequence functions as part of the onset or part of the nucleus . _ output configurations in phonology : epenthesis and syncope in cairene arabic _ . stuart davis and bushra adnan zawaydeh examine the output configurations created by syncope and epenthesis processes in cairene arabic . in cases where the ot prediction that the output shapes of syncope and epenthesis processes should be symmetrical is not maintained , there is an overriding base-identity constraint that plays a key role . _ variation in acquisition : an optimal approach _ . in this paper , katherine demuth shows than an ot analysis can account for multiple optimal outputs in acquisitional phonology in terms of partially ordered constraint rankings , or stratified domination hierarchies . _ topic - oriented null arguments in korean and optimality theory _ . jong - kyoo kim offers an ot analysis of null arguments , both subject and object arguments , in korean based on the domination of topic-related constraints over projection-related constraints . kim also develops a general pro-drop typology which reflects a differential ranking of constraints . _ correspondence in kyungsang korean truncation _ . seung - hoon shin examines a range of data on truncated words in the kyungsang dialect of korean including hypocoristics , truncated compounds , and loanword truncation . shin shows clear evidence that truncated words can be based on the underlying input rather than on a fully syllabified output .
