Subject: scil 10

call for papers . student conference in linguistics 10 special theme : linguistics in cognitive science keynote speaker : lila gleitman june 6 - 7 , 1998 northwestern university the 10th annual student conference in linguistics will be held at northwestern university in june 1998 . scil is a student-run conference run which aims to bring together graduate students from around the world to present their research and build connections with other students . the proceedings are published in the mit working papers in linguistics . we invite original , unpublished work in any area of linguistics . we would particularly like to encourage submissions which border other disciplines , in keeping with the conference theme . this includes , but is not limited to , psycholinguistics , computational linguistics , anthropological linguistics , speech perception and language acquisition . guidelines for submission : please submit ten copies of a one-page , 500 - word , anonymous abstract for a twenty-minute paper ( optionally , one additional page for data and / or references may be appended ) , along with a 3 " by 5 " card with : ( 1 ) your name , ( 2 ) your affiliation , ( 3 ) your address , phone number , and e-mail address , ( 4 ) the title of the paper , and ( 5 ) an indication of which subdivision of linguistics best describes the topic ( e . g . , phonetics , phonology , syntax , semantics , psycholinguistics , anthropological linguistics , computational linguistics , etc . ) the abstract should be as specific as possible , and it should clearly indicate the data covered , outline the arguments presented , and include any broader implications of the work . the deadline for receipt of abstracts is friday march 13 . send abstracts to : scil 10 department of linguistics northwestern university 2016 sheridan road evanston , il 60208 e - mail abstracts will be accepted in ascii only . the email message should also contain your name , affiliation , address , phone number , and e-mail address , the title of your paper , and the area of linguistics within which it falls . email abstracts should be submitted to scil @ ling . nwu . edu by 5pm on march 13 . further information is available at http : / / www . ling . nwu . edu / ~ scil . questions can be directed to scil @ ling . nwu . edu .
