Subject: languages of the world , institute of linguistics , moscow

languages of the world publication - languages of the world , institute of linguistics , moscow languages of the world is an encyclopedic multi-volume publication . each volume is devoted to one particular genetic or areal group of languages . all articles are written in russian by the leading authorities of russia and some other countries ( depending on volume ) , specializing in the respective languages . the articles of all volumes of languages of the world are written in accordance with a standard typologically oriented template that is imposed on each language . thus descriptions of all languages are comparable to one another . the articles on specific languages consist of the following main divisions : - sociolinguistic characterization - phonology and phonetics - detailed morphosyntactic characterization - account of the peculiarities of the lexicon - the dialectal system the books of the series are both fundamental studies and reference sources . the books are addressed to linguists , historians , ethnographers , and interested in language studies . so far five volumes have been published . the first one , " uralic languages " , was published in 1993 by " nauka " , and is not available at this time . in 1997 , the publishing house " indrik " published four volumes : - turkic languages , including all ancient and modern languages known to the science ; 542 pp . - mongolic , tingusic , korean , and japanese ; 407 pp . - paleoasiatic languages ( including chukchi - kamchatkan , yeniseian , eskimo - aleut , copper island aleut - russian mixed language , nivkh , yukagir , ainu , and burushaski ) ; 230 pp . - iranian languages , vol . 1 : southwestern group ( volumes 2 and 3 will follow ) ; 206 pp . in 1998 , the following volumes are expected to be published . - iranian languages , vol . 2 - dardic and nuristani languages - caucasian languages volumes on other branches of indo - european are currently being worked on . those who are interested in obtaining those book are requested to contact : andrej kibrik institute of linguistics russian academy of sciences b . kislovskij per . , 1 / 12 russia kibrik @ iling . msk . su fax : [ 7 ] ( 095 ) 290 05 28 we are now working on the problem of how to get books to foreign scholars ; having a list of those interested would make this work easier . prices on books will be in the range of $ 20 , depending on size of a specific book .
