Subject: computationally - intensive methods in quantitative linguistics

second workshop in computationally-intensive methods in quantitative linguistics department of statistics university of glasgow , uk 7 - 9 september 1998 announcement and call for registration in recent years techniques from disciplines such as computer science , articficial intelligence and statistics have found their way into the pages of journals such as the journal of quantitative linguistics , literary and linguistic computing and computers and the humanities . while this influx may bring more advanced methods of analysis to the fields of quantitative linguistics , stylometry and stylistics , the demands upon researchers to understand and use these new techniques are great . familiarity with the appropriate software and the ear of a sympathetic expert are pre-requisites without which the technique may seem out of reach to the average researcher . the humanities advanced technology and information institute and the department of statistics of the university of glasgow are hence supporting this practical workshop in computationally - intensive methods in quantitative linguistics . the workshop is designed to introduce the participants to four such techniques in a practical environment . each half-day session will be divided into an introductory session in a lecture theatre and a longer period spent working with software and practical examples . all of the speakers have published papers using the analyses they will present and their aim in this workshop is to enable the participants to return to their home institutions able to carry out these techniques in the course of their own research . the sessions and speakers are as follows : harald baayen ; max planck institute for psycholinguistics , nijmegen , the netherlands . large number of rare event models walter daelemans ; university of tilburg , the netherlands . linguistics as data mining : using machine learning techniques to discover linguistic generalizations michael oakes ; university of lancaster , unted kingdom . multivariate statistics in corpus linguistics fiona tweedie ; university of glasgow , united kingdom . time series models in linguistics the workshop will be held in the mathematics building of the university of glasgow , commencing on monday 7 september at 1pm . the four workshop sessions will take place on monday afternoon , tuesday 8 september and the morning of wednesday 9 september . there will also be a half day tour on the wednesday afternoon and a reception in the hunterian art gallery on monday evening . accommodation has been arranged in university accommodation with some en suite facilities . the reception , tea and coffee , lunches on 8 and 9 september and evening meals on 7 and 8 september are included in the registration fee . the registration fee , until 15 july , is gbp150 . 00 and gbp100 . 00 for students . participants who are also attending the digital resources in the humanities conference , 9-12 september are eligible for a discount in the registration fees . for more information about the workshop and to register , please consult the web site at http : / / www . stats . gla . ac . uk / ~ cimql , or send email to the conference organisers at cimql @ stats . gla . ac . uk .
