Subject: sle 98 st . andrews

invitation to workshop during the 31st sle conference at st . andrews , 26-30 august , 1998 workshop organizer : werner abraham , groningen ( e - mail : abraham @ let . rug . nl , fax : + 31-50 - 363 58 21 ) workshop topic : ` spoken and written languages ; their structural and typological differeences ' the workshop aims at presentations in the following subfields to the general title : parsing strategies divided between spoken and written vernaculars ; typological differences and historical changes initiated by parsing rather than logical-structu - ral triggers ( such as , as the underwritten himself will claim in a contribution to the workshop , the upper german preterite decay ) ; typological differences be - tween genetically closely related languages such as afrikaans , yiddish and dial - ectal germans ( more or less strongly svo ) vs . written german ( sov ) ; what me - diates between sov and svo other than ( charles fries ' claim ) distinctions of mor - phological case ? it will be shown in the paper referred to above that distinctions of a discourse-functional sort and their prerequsites in structural terms ( wide middle field ! ) can contribute to the upkeeping of sov despite the fact that case morphology is rather weak ( dialectal german and dutch ) . organization : ( especially younger ) colleagues interested should contact organizer at groningen with an abstract covering an adjacent topic no longer than one page ( for a 20-30 minutes presentation ) . the intention is to submit a collection of the - matically unified papers to fol as a self-contained volume . heed : to attend the conference you need to be a member of the societas linguistica europaea . please contact the local organizers , dr . christopher beedham and dr . isabel forbes , dept . of german , school of modern languages , the university , st . andrews , fife ky16 9ph , scotland / uk , cb1 @ st-and . ac . uk , fax ( 01334 ) 46 36 77 , home page : http : / / www . st-and . ac . uk / academic / modlangs / sle98 / sle98 . html mail to : werner abraham , duits - letteren - rug , oude kijk in ' t jat straat 26 , nl-9712 ek groningen
