Subject: workshop annoncement and call for papers - clitics

workshop announcement and call for papers c l i t i c s 24th - 26th february 1999 konstanz university , germany we are pleased to announce our workshop on ' clitics ' during the 21st annual meeting of the german society of linguistics in konstanz ( germany ) . in linguistic research , clitics play an increasingly prominent role . the status of clitics is under discussion in phonology , morphology , and syntax , as well as in the respective interfaces . in these fields , the discussion on clitics gives rise to controversial analyses . one open question is whether we need in fact a separate linguistic category ' clitic ' , or whether these elements can be subsumed under different linguistic categories , such as affixes . - with respect to phonology , it is undetermined how clitics are incorporated into phonological structure . should we distinguish a clitic group in the prosodic hierarchy , are clitics part of prosodic words , or are they left outside prosodic structure ? how is their phonological deficiency best accounted for ? - concerning the morphology of clitics , especially regarding the occurrence of opaque clitics in clitic clusters , analyses within the framework of distributed morphology compete with those which propose an optimality theoretic solution . - also , the morphosyntactic status of clitics is unclear . is it possible to capture the order of clitics in clitic clusters in a more explanatory way than in terms of templates ? the complex conditions on clitic doubling give rise to the question whether clitics should be analysed as agreement markers or as arguments . - syntactic aspects of clitics play a major role in recent analyses in different theoretical frameworks . for instance , there is no agreement on the explanation of clitic climbing and it is an unsettled issue whether clitic placement should be accounted for in a syntactic , prosodic , prosodic-syntactic , or optimality-theoretic approach . the workshop intends to bring together phonologists , morphologists , and syntacticians and provides an ideal opportunity to share insights and to discuss the issues mentioned above . in addition to the invited speaker presentations , there are 9 slots for 30 - minute presentations , and 3 slots for 1 hour presentations ( including discussion ) . invited speakers : geert booij ( free university amsterdam ) jane grimshaw ( rutgers university ) juan uriagereka ( university of maryland ) please send a one-page abstract before 15th august 1998 to : birgit gerlach & janet grijzenhout , seminar fuer allgemeine sprachwissenschaft , heinrich - heine - universitaet , universitaetsstr . 1 , 40225 duesseldorf , germany . we may be contacted by e-mail at gerlach @ phil-fak . uni-duesseldorf . de , or grijzenh @ phil-fak . uni-duesseldorf . de
