Subject: confs : scil 10 - linguistics in cognitive science

scil-10 june 6 & 7 northwestern university annenberg hall 10th annual student conference in linguistics " linguistics in cognitive science " june 6 and 7 , annenberg hall , northwestern university . registration information at http : / / www . ling . nwu . edu / ~ scil / send questions to scil @ ling . nwu . edu schedule : saturday , june 6 semantics session sat 9 : 00 jya - lin hwang university of hawaii , manoa on chinese resultative verb compounds : a lexical subordination approach sat 9 : 30 anna goy universita ' di torino ( italy ) lexical semantics of emotional adjectives sat 10 : 00 masaaki fuji rutgers university a stage - level e - type pronoun in japanese - - - - - - - break syntax session a sat 11 . 00 keiko murumatsu university of maryland the count / mass distinction and the ordering of adjectives sat 11 : 30 kleanthes k . grohmann university of maryland syntactic inquiries into discourse restrictions on multiple interrogatives sat 12 : 00 ralph c . blight university of texas at austin vp ellipsis , predicate fronting , and verb positions in english - - - - - - - lunch break psycholinguistics session sat 2 : 00 barbara j . luka university of chicago judgment fatigue : when metacognition and linguistic data crash and burn sat 2 : 30 julie hilliard university of kansas the perception of lexical stress in auditory word recognition sat 3 : 00 john grinstead ucla jeffrey macswan ucla susan curtis ucla rochel gelman ucla the independence of language and number sat 3 : 30 aida martinovic - zic university of wisconsin at milwaukee jelena jovanovic university of california at berkeley conceptualization of motion and language - specific constraints in first language acquisition - - - - - - break sat 4 : 30 - 6 : 00 keynote address lila gleitman university of pennsylvania more surprises about word learning : the human simulation paradigm - - - - - - - dinner break sat 8 : 00 scil party omni orrington hotel ( until midnight ) sunday , june 7 syntax session b sun 9 : 00 masao ochi university of connecticut multiple spell - out , pf merger and adjunction sun 9 : 30 satoshi oku university of connecticut english genitive " pronouns " as isomorphs of anaphor and pronominal sun 10 : 00 mika kizu mcgill university resumptive a ' - dependencies in cleft constructions - - - - - break language acquisition and discourse analysis session sun 11 : 00 vaijayanthi sarma mit acquisition of condition a and agreement : the developmental syntax of tamil sun 11 : 30 hikyoung lee university of pennsylvania the production and perception of discourse marker use in korean americans sun 12 : 00 laurel stvan northwestern university how about it ? the influence of accent and context in determining discourse function - - - - lunch break phonology session sun 2 : 00 caroline jones university of massachusetts , amherst licit vs . illicit responses in meinhof 's rule phenomena sun 2 : 30 walcir cardoso mcgill university resolving hiatus in picard : an optimality account sun 3 : 00 tao - yuan li university of minnesota effects of phonetic duration and phonological complexity on short - term memory
