Subject: amta ' 98

* * deadline postponed * * deadline postponed * * deadline postponed * * - - - call for submissions - - - association for machine translation in the americas amta-98 conference , langhorne , pa , october 28-31 , 1998 machine translation and the information soup ( mt in a growing field of language technologies ) the association for machine translation in the americas is pleased to convene its third conference in the biennial series , to be held at the sheraton bucks county hotel in langhorne , pa , on 28-31 october , with tutorials and welcoming reception on wednesday , october 28 , and pre-conference workshops scheduled for tuesday october 27th . following on the success of last year 's mt summit , which commemorated the 50th anniversary of machine translation , amta invites all who are interested in any aspect of machine translation - - developers , researchers , users , and watchers - - to attend the conference in october . at amta-98 we will focus on the multilingual aspects of the diverse language technologies being used increasingly on the web : information retrieval , text summarization , speech recognition , and so on . as usual , the conference will feature invited speakers , panel discussions , papers by researchers and developers , workshops , tutorials , and more . participation by members of amta 's sister organizations , aamt in asia and eamt in europe , is strongly encouraged . and people working in related areas , such as information retrieval and summarization , are very welcome to attend . more information about the conference can be found at http : / / www . isi . edu / natural-language / amta98 . html registration form a copy of the amta-98 registration form will soon be posted on the web at : http : / / www . isi . edu / natural-language / amta98 . html alternatively , please contact debbie becker association for machine translation in the americas 1201 pennsylvania avenue , n . w . , suite 300 washington , dc 20004 usa tel / fax : + 1-703 - 716-0912 email : amta @ clark . net conference organizers general chair : eduard hovy , usc information sciences institute program chairs : david farwell , crl , new mexico state university laurie gerber , systran software , inc . ( san diego ) local arrangements chair : martha palmer , university of pennsylvania amta-98 : paper and system description / demonstration submissions . authors / system developers are invited to submit three kinds of presentations : 1 . theoretical papers : unpublished papers are requested about original work on all aspects of machine translation . however , given the theme of this year 's conference , special consideration will be given to papers which address advances in multilingual language and information technologies which have a potential impact on machine translation . papers should be in english , not longer than 10 pages , with minimum character font size of 11 pt . 2 . system descriptions with optional system demonstrations : approx . 25 minutes will be allocated per system description / demo . submissions should be in english , not longer than 4 pages . if a system demonstration is included , please provide the following information : - hardware platform , - operating system , - name and contact information of system operations specialist . 3 . studies of users experiences with implementing mt or testing its applicability to some task . users and marketing consultants are especially welcome to submit . studies should be in english , not longer than 8 pages , with minimum character font size of 11 pt . first page : all types of submission should include a separate title page with the following information : - paper title , - author ( s ) ' name ( s ) , address ( es ) , telephone and fax numbers , email address ( es ) , - one-paragraph abstract , - for theoretical papers : subject area keyword ( s ) for user studies : the words " user study " for system descriptions / demos : the words " system description / demo " . submissions are due at address below on june 15 , 1998 . * new deadline * authors will be notified of acceptance on july 15 , 1998 . final copies of papers are due on august 31 , 1998 . softcopy submissions ( papers that do not print will be returned to the author ) : email address : david @ crl . nmsu . edu subject line : amta-98 submission paper encoding : - ascii plain text - microsoft word ( rtf format ) - postscript hardcopy submissions ( please send four ( 4 ) copies ) : amta-98 : david farwell computing research laboratory box 30001 / 3crl new mexico state university las cruces , nm 88003 usa
