Subject: aaal - - colloquium on translation

a colloquium on translation is being proposed to the american association for applied linguistics ( aaal ) . if approved , it will be presented at its annual conference held from march 6 to march 9 , 1999 in stamford , connecticut , u . s . a . the theme and content of the colloquium have not been pre-determined . contributors ' papers and ideas contained in them will set its topic and define its central thought . the aim is to put together a set of about five quality works which complement each other , forming a coherent whole . it is an open-minded approach with no preference for particular languages or sub-fields . the organizer intends to be the discussant . if you would like to participate , please provide the materials listed below . kindly note that only traditional paper copy is acceptable to aaal . hence do not submit anything via facsimile or e - mail . please be sure that the print is sharp and dark , since photocopying will be necessary . as aaal allows only one submission per person , if you choose to be considered for this colloquium you should not be submitting a separate paper to aaal , directly or indirectly . ( 1 ) an abstract which is titled , typed , and no more than 300 words in length . if references are necessary , incorporate them into the text of the abstract ; do not attach a separate list of works cited . in the top left-hand corner list the author 's name , address , telephone number , facsimile number ( if available ) , e-mail address ( if available ) , and institutional affiliation . fit everything on one single page ; leave the reverse side blank . the organizer will prepare the anonymous copy aaal requires . ( 2 ) a sheet on which appears the author 's name , title of paper , and specification of twenty , twenty-five , or thirty minutes as the delivery time desired . be prepared to stay within that stated time limit during the presentation . if a slide projector , tv monitor , vcr , audio player , or over-head projector is needed , please so state on this sheet as well . note , however , that there is an estimated charge of us $ 35 for the first item , and us $ 70 for the second and third items ; the last two items require no fee . individual presenters will be billed for the charges after the conference . ( 3 ) if no e-mail address is given , or if acknowledgement is not to be sent via e-mail , supply an addressed envelope or mailing label so that you could be informed of the receipt of your packet . the deadline for receipt of the above materials by the colloquium 's organizer is july 31 , 1998 . authors will be notified of selection results around august 20 . those abstracts selected will be submitted as a group proposal to aaal for blind evaluation . once their decision is received - - most likely in november - - it will be relayed to the authors . if aaal accepts the proposal , authors are required to submit drafts of their papers to the discussant by february 15 , 1999 . a fifty-word summary will also be necessary for inclusion in the conference programme . send listed items to : helen chau hu , department of english , california state university , long beach , california 90840-2403 , u . s . a . [ telephone : 562-985 - 4229 ; e-mail : hchauhu @ csulb . edu . ] presenters must register for the conference . the registration fee and membership dues will total about us $ 160 . to make enquiries regarding aaal , please contact them directly at : p . o . box 21686 , eagan , minnesota 55121-0686 , u . s . a . their web site is at : http : / / igor . lis . wisc . edu / aaal . helen chau hu assistant professor department of english california state university long beach , california 90840 voice mail : 562-985 - 4229
