Subject: 2nd ws on interlinguas

second workshop on interlinguas : call for papers from text to representation : second workshop on interlinguas tuesday , october 27 , 1998 ( preceding the amta 98 conference ) sheraton bucks county hotel , langhorne , pennsylvania [ http : / / crl . nmsu . edu / events / fwoi / secondworkshop / index . html ] the focus of this workshop will be a multi-lingual text and the task of representing aspects of that text using an interlingual representation ( il ) . the format is meant to encourage concrete discussion on how ils handle particular challenges , including , but not limited to , representation of : basic predicate / argument structure noun phrases / referents proper nouns prepositional meaning non-literal language temporal relations textual organization lexical divergences syntactic divergences submitters are invited to select some aspect or section of the text , in a single language , or a language pair / set , and submit a short position paper , describing the il representation for that aspect . in addition to providing concrete il representations and terms ( ontological entities / atoms ) , submitters are encouraged to focus also on the reasons why one would choose to define these particular terms , and the justification for defining in a particular way the relations , slots , and fillers of the term . papers should define the aspect to be discussed , identify instances in the text , provide a representation for these instances , and categorize the instances according to the treatment proposed . the papers will be collected and published as the proceedings of the workshop . submission of end-to - end output of an il system ( including and identifying relevant hand-crafted elements ) is especially encouraged . submissions could also propose theoretical justification for a particular framework , in particular how the building blocks of the system work in handling an aspect of the text . the workshop itself will consist of panels organized around the representational aspects selected by the participants . the panel presentations will be supplemented by periods for general discussion and other activities . ideally , the result of the workshop will be - in some cases , a consistent set of il expressions for the various problematic issues raised by the text and - in other cases , a clearer delineation of ( 1 ) how the various problematic issues in the text are treated in different ils and ( 2 ) the fundamental differences in approach that motivate these different il treatments . a final product of the workshop will be an outline of the issues discussed in determining whether combined il approaches are possible and / or desirable . these results will provide a basis for further workshops . the multi-lingual text will be available at http : / / crl . nmsu . edu / events / fwoi / secondworkshop / text . html in glossed english , french , spanish , chinese , arabic , german , russian , persian , italian , catalan , vietnamese , malay , greek , bulgarian , tamil , and portuguese versions , as they become available . notice of interest in participation : july 10 , 1998 ( to shelmrei @ crl . nmsu . edu ) ( please identify specifically what aspect of il representation you intend to address ) position paper submission : august 10 , 1998 notifications : september 10 , 1998 final copies of papers : october 10 , 1998 workshop : october 27 , 1998 submission may be in printed or electronic form ( latex , framemaker ) , but should follow acl style sheet ( available at http : / / www . cs . columbia . edu / ~ acl / home . html ) . submissions should be sent to : stephen helmreich computing research laboratory new mexico state university po box 30001 / 3crl las cruces , nm 88003 ( usa ) phone : ( 505 ) 646-2141 fax : ( 505 ) 646-6218 e-mail : shelmrei @ crl . nmsu . edu the registration fee for the conference is $ 50 . non - presenters will be accepted on a first-come , first served basis . a copy of the registration form is available at : http : / / crl . nmsu . edu / events / fwoi / secondworkshop / registration . html
