Subject: special issue jetai

call for papers journal of experimental and theoretical artificial intelligence special issue on memory-based language processing memory - based language processing ( mblp ) views language processing as being based on the direct reuse of previous experience rather than on the use of abstractions extracted from that experience . in such a framework , language acquisition is modeled as the storage of exemplars , and language processing as similarity-based reasoning . mblp derives from work in artificial intelligence ( case-based reasoning , memory-based reasoning , instance-based learning , lazy learning ) , linguistics ( analogical modeling ) , computational linguistics ( example-based machine translation , case-based language processing , data-oriented parsing ) , and statistical pattern recognition ( k-nn models ) . in recent research , it has been shown that the application of algorithms based on this framework leads to accurate and efficient language models in diverse language processing areas ( phonology , morphology , syntax , semantics , discourse ) . we invite theoretical papers on models , algorithms and metrics for memory-based language processing , and empirical studies comparing mblp variants to each other or to alternative non-memory - based approaches for specific language processing tasks . time table deadline for submissions : september 1 , 1998 notification date : november 1 , 1998 deadline for final versions : january 1 , 1999 special issue : summer or autumn 1999 instructions for authors : 1 . the original manuscript and three clear copies should be submitted to : walter daelemans ( guest editor ) ilk research group , computational linguistics tilburg university warandelaan 2 5037 gc tilburg building b , room 307 the netherlands + 31 13 4663070 ( phone ) + 31 13 4663110 ( fax ) walter . daelemans @ kub . nl all papers will be refereed by at least three reviewers . 2 . all papers must be in english . the entire manuscript should be typed on one side only of plain paper , either a4 or 8 . 5 x 11 inch , with double spacing used throughout . 3 . the first page of the manuscript should carry the title , the names , institutional addresses , and institutional telephone numbers of the authors , and a short title of no more than 50 characters ( including spaces ) to be used as a running head . the second page of the manuscript should carry an abstract of about 200 words . the remainder of the text should not exceed 30 double spaced pages , including references but excluding figures and tables . all figures and tables must be referred to by number in the text . 4 . an original set of professional quality figures should accompany the manuscript . line drawing may be india ink originals or glossy prints . halftone illustrations must be submitted as glossy prints . illustrations cannot be printed in color . 5 . tables should be typed on separate pages , which should accompany the text . 6 . the text should be written in third person to facilitate blind reviewing . the names of the authors or their institutions should appear only on the title page . 7 . the name-date style should be used for all references . all authors ' names should be included in the reference list . journal names should not be abbreviated . inclusive page numbers must be given for all references to articles in journals , proceedings volumes , or books . with the exception of theses or dissertations , unpublished works should not be included as references . 8 . footnotes may not be used . endnotes may be used if necessary ; they should be collected on separate sheets at the end of the text . 9 . fifty free offprints will be provided to the first author of each paper . there will be no page charges .
