Subject: lrec workshop announcement

call for participation towards a european evaluation infrastructure for nl and speech . a workshop jointly organised by the european network of excellence in language and speech elsnet and the cec language engineering-4 project else to be held on wednesday may 27 , 9 : 00-13 : 00 at the first international conference on language resources and evaluation granada , spain right now , a generic framework for semi-automatic quantitative black-box evaluation of speech and nlp systems does not exist in europe . when confronted to a choice , developers and users prefer to ask the opinion of local experts as any other way of processing is either unrealistic or too costly . the le4 project else aims at providing developers with a generic strategy and definition of the primary building blocks needed to implement a semi-automatic quantitative black-box evaluation scheme . prominent speakers from the field will be invited to present papers addressing motivation , advantages , but also problems in connection with the implementation of such an evaluation scheme at an international scale . topics include e . g . the multilingual nature of evaluation , lessons from the past ( in europe and the us ) , the need for language resources . at the workshop the first intermediate results of the else project will be presented and discussed . this call serves to invite interested parties to active participation in the workshop . during the workshop , ample opportunity will be provided for the participants to react to the presentation of the else project , and the talks by the invited speakers . furthermore participants will be given the opportunity to give brief position statements . the workshop is very timely as it takes place when the ec 's 5th framework programme is taking shape . it is clear that the availability of a european evaluation infrastucture can be an important factor in european r&d activities , and that it can only be successful if it is organized and implemented on a european scale . programme committee the workshop will be coorganized by elsnet and else . the programme committee will consist of the participants in the else le project : niels ole bernsen jean - pierre chanod khalid choukri robert gaizauskas steven krauwer isabelle de lamberterie joseph mariani klaus netter patrick paroubek martin rajman antonio zampolli contact steven krauwer trans 10 , 3512 jk utrecht , the netherlands phone : + 31 30 253 6050 fax : + 31 30 253 6000 email : steven . krauwer @ let . ruu . nl registration the registration fee for the workshop will be : 10 , 000 pesetas for those not attending lrec 5 , 000 pesetas for those attending lrec these fees will include a coffee break and the proceedings of the workshop . participation in the workshop will be limited by the venue . requests for participation will be processed on a first come first served basis . conference information general information about the conference can be found at : http : / / www . icp . inpg . fr / elra / conflre . html specific queries about the conference should be directed to : lrec secretariat facultad de traduccion e interpretacion dpto . de traduccion e interpretacion c / puentezuelas , 55 18002 granada , spain tel : + 34 58 24 41 00 fax : + 34 58 24 41 04 email : reli98 @ goliat . ugr . es
