Subject: third international icsc symposia

third international icsc symposia on intelligent industrial automation ( iia ' 99 ) http : / / www . icsc . ab . ca / iia99 . htm and soft computing ( soco ' 99 ) http : / / www . icsc . ab . ca / soco99 . htm june 1 - 4 , 1999 at the palazzo ducale in genova , italy introduction the international symposia on intelligent industrial automation ( iia ' 99 ) and soft computing ( soco ' 99 ) intend to encompass short-to - long-term effects of advanced information technology , soft computing and other related ' intelligent technolgies ' in application fields such as industrial automation , control , diagnostics , computer vision , robotics , speech recognition and machine translation . the general aim of the symposia is to address and underline the existing and emerging relationships between automation , manufacturing and intelligent technolgies , with particular emphasis on soft computing . contributions are sought on intelligent automation and manufacturing with emphasis on current and potential applications , with a broad interest in all the engineering disciplines , computer science and related technology fields . following the success of iia / soco ' 96 ( reading , england ) and iia / soco ' 97 ( nmes , france ) , the third symposium will be held in genova , italy . the iia / soco series have established themselves as a platform for scientists and practitioners from academic , governmental and industrial institutions to discuss new developments and results in the field of intelligent technologies . a further follow-up conference has already been scheduled for the year 2001 in paisley , scotland . purpose of iia ' 99 and soco ' 99 advances in soft computing and related techniques : theory and applications . ait ( advanced information technology ) is one of the major technological drivers in the advancement of modern society . nowadays any major achievement , related to any field of research , is strongly supported by proper ait based tools . very often , such achievements have only been possible after a proper ait approach has been designed and implemented . it is widely known that ait has a very strong impact on society itself , radically changing the skills and competencies required in order to contribute to the everyday human environment . given that nowadays the major effort in ait development is spent in the so called ' soft - computing ' arena and that some of the major and indeed , surprising , achievements in industrial applications come from the application of soft-computing techniques , the two symposia ( iia ' 99 and soco ' 99 ) will have many common areas of interest , namely : - neural networks - fuzzy logic - genetic algorithms - chaos theory - ai and expert systems - machine learning - pattern recognition and image understanding the programs of the two conferences will , however , reflect different themes : - iia ' 99 will be directed toward the medium-to - short term , application driven , research area in intelligent technologies . - soco ' 99 is directed toward the long term research in area of soft computing in order to try to overcome the usual borderline existing between theory and application , the two symposia are run jointly , organized in a way to have partial overlap with some joint sessions and some common plenary sessions . aim of iia ' 99 / soco ' 99 1 . to give both a wide and a deep view of advances in ait advancement offered by soft-computing technologies . 2 . to give both the industrial and academic researcher the opportunity to discuss together real problems and opportunities . 3 . to collect ' best practice ' and information on how to perform experiments , tests and design products and processes embedding and / or using soft-computing technologies . 4 . to explicitly and actively function as a ' technology broker ' , giving the opportunity for people to become aware of new problems and possible solutions and giving the possibility of finding technological partners for joint research and / or future application programs . topics of iia ' 99 iia ' 99 will include contributions in the research area of soft computing application and , more in general , related to medium-to - short term and application driven developments advanced information technology and industrial intelligent technology . particular emphasis will be laid on industrial realization , experimental application , application methodology development and / or formalization , quantitative and qualitative problem modeling . contributions are sought mainly in the areas based on the list below : a ) industrial area - industry - energy - transportation - services - consumer - etc . b ) high - tech area - innovative control and diagnostics - computer vision - robotics and remote sensing - speech recognition and machine translation - etc . c ) green - tech area - intelligent resource management - intelligent pollutant management - user behavior modeling - intelligent traffic control - etc . topics of soco ' 99 soco ' 99 will include contributions on long term research ( theory development , enhanced approaches , formal methods comparisons , applications , etc . ) in the area of soft-computing . contributions are sought in areas based on the list below , which is indicative only . - neural networks - fuzzy logic - rough sets - genetic algorithms and evolutionary computing - chaos theory - ai and expert systems - probabilistic reasoning - machine learning - learning algorithms and intelligent control - pattern recognition and image understanding - distributed intelligence - self - organizing systems - fuzzy databases and information retrieval - educational aspects of soft computing special session a special session on ' intelligent systems in control and process optimization ' including a plenary lecture is sponsored by the ifs network and organized by alberto servida , italy . contributions are welcome . conference location the symposia will be held at the palazzo ducale , a beautiful historic building in the city centre of genova , italy sponsors iia ' 99 and soco ' 99 are sponsored by : - ansaldo s . p . a . - disi - department of computer and information sciences at the university of genoa , italy - commune di genova , italy - university of genova , italy - cybernetics and biophysics national group of the national research council - ieee neural network council italian regional interest group - international neural networks society and inns special interest group italy - thematic network ifs ( intelligent forecasting system for refineries and power systems ) - icsc international computer science conventions , canada / switzerland iia ' 99 symposium committee - honorary chair yutaka kuwahara , r & d centre , hitachi europe ltd . - symposium chair riccardo parenti , ansaldo ricerche , genova , italy - symposium vice chair colin fyfe , university of paisley , scotland , u . k . - scientific secretary carla penno , ansaldo ricerche , genova , italy - international scientific committee roberto baratti , italy zeungnam bien , korea piero bonissone , usa pierre borne , france hans - heinrich bothe , switzerland / germany abhay bulsari , finland daniele caviglia , italy vincent chapurlat , france raja chatila , france richard d . colbaugh , usa anna maria colla , italy clarence w . de silva , canada h . a . donegan , u . k . jos r . dorronsorro , spain patrick gallinari , france edoardo gilardi , italy madan m . gupta , canada henry h . hexmoor , usa r . j . howlett , u . k charles mclean , usa antony a . maciejewski , usa janine magnier , france franco masulli , italy fazel naghdy , australia saeid nahavandi , australia charles c . nguyen , usa david pearson , france duc t . pham , u . k . brian roffel , netherlands alberto servida , italy peter vas , u . k . leonello zaquini , italy jacek m . zurada , usa soco ' 99 symposium committee - honorary chair antonio di nola , university di napoli federico ii , naples , italy - symposium chair francesco masulli , university of genoa , italy - symposium vice chair colin fyfe , university of paisley , scotland , u . k . - international scientific committee henry abarbanel , usa ethem alpaydin , turkey peter g . anderson , usa valeriu beiu , usa gerardo beni , usa franco bignone , italy freimut bodendorf , germany andrej dobnikar , slovenia marco dorigo , belgium gerard dray , france marco gori , italy hans hellendoorn , netherlands laszlo koczy , hungary mohammad jamshidi , usa james keller , usa bart kosko , usa ludmila kuncheva , u . k . franz kurfess , usa sadaaki miyamoto , japan claudio moraga , germany pietro morasso , italy francesco carlo morabito , italy david w . pearson , france rjean plamondon , canada henrik saxen , finland george d . smith , u . k . nigel steele , u . k . leonard studer , switzerland yoshinori uesaka , japan call for papers prospective authors are requested to send a draft paper ( maximum 7 pages ) for review by the international scientific committee . all submissions must be written in english , starting with a succinct statement of the problem , the results achieved , their significance and a comparison with previous work , as well as a list of references . the submissions should also include : - title of conference ( soco ' 99 or iia ' 99 ) - type of paper ( regular , demonstration , tutorial or invited ) - title of proposed paper - authors names , affiliations , addresses - name of author to contact for correspondence - e - mail address and fax # of contact author - topics which best describe the paper ( max . 5 keywords ) - short c . v . of authors contributions are welcome from those working in industry and having experience in the topics of this symposium as well as from academics . symposium language is english . invited sessions , tutorial papers , demonstrations and contributions to the special session on ' intelligent systems in control and process optimization ' are also encouraged . submission of papers submissions must be sent by september 10 , 1998 either by - electronic mail ( recommended ) to operating @ icsc . ab . ca ( text , postscript or word files ) or - fax to icsc canada + 1-403 - 387-4329 or - airmail ( 2 copies ) to : icsc canada p . o . box 279 millet , ab t0c 1z0 canada important dates submission of draft papers : september 10 , 1998 notification of acceptance : november 30 , 1998 delivery of final papers : january 31 , 1999 tutorials and workshops : june 1 , 1999 iia ' 99 / soco ' 99 symposia : june 2 - 4 , 1999 further information for more detailed information , please consult the following websites : - iia ' 99 : http : / / www . icsc . ab . ca / iia99 . htm - soco ' 99 : http : / / www . icsc . ab . ca / soco99 . htm or forward any questions to the conference organizer mailto : operating @ icsc . ab . ca conference organizer icsc international computer science conventions p . o . box 279 millet , alberta t0c 1z0 canada email : mailto : operating @ icsc . ab . ca url : http : / / www . icsc . ab . ca fax : + 1-403 - 387-4329 ( after january 25 , 1999 : + 1-780 - 387-4329 ) phone : + 1-403 - 387-3546 ( after january 25 , 1999 : + 1-780 - 387-3546 )
