Subject: inversion in romance

call for papers twenty years after the publication in linguistic inquiry of richard kayne and jean - yves pollock 's influential article on stylistic inversion , the university of amsterdam will host a workshop on inversion in the romance languages . the goal of this workshop is to get a clear picture of the insights the last twenty years have produced with respect to the syntactic and interpretative principles that govern inversion and the way they interact . inversion in romance university of amsterdam 28 - 29 may 1998 holland institute of generative linguistics ( hil ) utrecht institute of linguistics ( uil ) keynote speakers : richard kayne & jean-yves pollock adriana belletti k . tarald taraldsen maria luisa zubizarreta also scheduled are presentations by sergio baauw , joao costa , joost dekkers , vieri samek - lodovici and maarten de wind . to enhance the scope of the workshop , the program will include 6 presentations by selected speakers . these presentations are allotted approximately 30 minutes . those who are interested in submitting a paper containing original work on any aspect of inversion in romance are invited to send 5 anonymous copies of an abstract not exceeding 2 pages , plus one camera-ready original containing the author 's name , address , affiliation and e-mail address . abstracts submitted by e-mail or fax within the deadline are accepted on condition that a camera-ready original is received within 1 week . deadline for submission of abstracts is 5 february 1998 abstracts should be sent to the following address : aafke hulk university of amsterdam e - mail : inversion @ let . uva . nl department of french phone : 31-20 - 5254635 spuistraat 134 fax : 31-20 - 5254429 1012 vb amsterdam , the netherlands more information can be found on the www : http : / / www . leidenuniv . nl / hil / confs / inversion organizing committee : aafke hulk , denis delfitto , joost dekkers , petra sleeman , els verheugd , maarten de wind . sponsors : royal dutch academy of sciences ( knaw ) , holland institute of generative linguistics ( hil ) , netherlands organization for scientific research ( nwo ) , utrecht institute of linguistics ( uil ) .
