Subject: anglo - american studies

first announcement and call for papers for the 1999 issue of op . cit . : a journal of anglo - american studies , published by apeaa , the portuguese association for anglo - american studies modernisms and postmodernisms in english studies : accounting for the century the 20th century has witnessed the growth , developments and border-crossings of english studies as a major , complex , multidisciplinary , multicultural field . alongside ( not seldom in dialogue and confrontation with ) the established english of literary studies , for many decades dominant in many ways and places , also language and culture studies have , with their various disciplines , methods and perspectives , moved centre-stage and re-shaped , re-defined , and re-orientated the field . it is the history of english studies in the century now drawing to its close that op . cit . : a journal of anglo - american studies invites prospective contributors to focus on and study : its significant chapters , individual authors and intellectual formations , periods and theoretical constellations ; its disciplinary , interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary modes and approaches , its dominant , residual and emergent strategies and discourses ; its established and new linguistic codes ( english vs . english ) ; its horizons , mappings and accents ; its institutionally constituted scholarship ( s ) and its innovative projects . the theme proposed , modernisms and postmodernisms in english studies : accounting for the century , offers one version of the narrative of beginnings , transitions and changes in english studies in our century , one starting point for analysis , and one opportunity for alternative versions . deadline for 2 - 3 , 000 - word position and 7 - 8 , 000 - word papers : sept . 30 , 1998 . submissions in diskette and two hard copies . op . cit . is a refereed journal . all contributions should be submitted anonymously ( author 's name and address , and full title of the article on a separate sheet ) for more information contact alvaro pina , editor , ferpi @ mail . telepac . pt carlos a . m . gouveia , assistant editor , carlosmg @ fc . ul . pt material mail address : prof . alvaro pina ( or prof . carlos a . m . gouveia ) depto estudos anglsticos , faculdade de letras , universidade de lisboa cidade universitaria 1699 lisboa codex , portugal fax no . + 351 - 1-7960063 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - carlos a . m . gouveia dept . estudos anglisticos faculdade de letras da univ . de lisboa cidade universitaria 1699 lisboa codex portugal fax : ( 351 ) ( 1 ) 796 00 63 e-mail : carlosmg @ fc . ul . pt
