Subject: morphology and syntax

describing morphosyntax : a guide for field linguists thomas e . payne ( university of oregon ) ; describing morphosyntax : a guide for field linguists ; isbn : 0-521 - 58224 - 5 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 430 pp . ; pub . date : 10 / 31 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 64 . 95 ; this book is a guide for linguistic fieldworkers who wish to write a description of the morphology and syntax of one of the world 's many underdocumented languages . it offers readers who work through it one possible outline for a grammatical description , with many questions designed to help them address the key topics . appendices offer guidance on text and elicited data , and on sample reference grammars that readers might wish to consult . this will be a valuable resource to anyone engaged in linguistic fieldwork . ; contents : introduction ; 1 . demographic and ethnographic information ; 2 . morphological typology ; 3 . grammatical categories ; 4 . constituent order typology ; 5 . noun and noun-phrase operations ; 6 . predicate nominals and related constructions ; 7 . grammatical relations ; ! 8 . voice and valence adjusting operations ; 9 . other verb and veb-phrase operations ; 10 . pragmatically marked structures ; 11 . clause combinations ; 12 . conclusions : the language in use ; appendix 1 : on text and elicited data ; appendix 2 : sample reference grammars ; references ; indexes ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html parameters of morphosyntactic change parameters of morphosyntactic change ; isbn : 0-521 - 58402 - 7 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 556 pp . ; ans van kemenade , ed . ( free university of amsterdam ) ; pub . date : 6 / 30 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 74 . 95 ; the relationship between changes in ( inflectional ) morphology and the consequences of these changes in syntax has been a perennial issue in historical linguistics . the contributors to this volume address the issue of how to model the phenomena of syntactic and morphological change within recent frameworks , including the minimalist programme . topics addressed include the way categories like aspect and mood interact over time with the valency of verbs ; the nature of changes in verb placement ; the changing division of labor between different types of argument marking - - case , word order , clitics , agreement . ^ l the volume contains chapters by many of the leading scholars in the field . there is a substantial introduction which reviews the development of ideas in generative histori ! cal syntax over the last fifteen years , and assesses the distinctive properties of the generative position . the volume will appeal to those working in theoretical syntax , and also to specialists in the history of german , french and the romance and germanic languages more broadly . ; contents : introduction : parameters and morphosyntactic change ans van kemenade and nigel vincent ; part i . aspect , argument structure and case selection : 1 . the interdependence of cas , aspect and referentiality in the history of german werner abraham ; 2 . the rise of the article in the germanic languages julia philippi ; 3 . the diachronic development of a modal verb of necessity paola beninca and cecilia poletto ; 4 . auxiliary verbs in old and middle french philip h . miller ; 5 . commentary on part i : aspect , argument structure and case selection alessandra tomaselli ; part ii . clitics : 6 . the emergence of the d - system in romance nigel vincent ; 7 . on two locations for complement clitic pronouns maria luisa ! rivero ; 8 . on the integration of second position phenomena josep m second and comp : 9 . shifting triggers and diachronic reanalyses david lightfoot ; 10 . viewing change in progress alison henry ; 11 . verb movement in old and middle english anthony kroch and ann taylor ; 12 . v2 and embedded topicalization in old and middle english ans van kemenade ; 13 . qu ' est-ce que ce que : the diachronic evolution of a french complementizer laurie zaring and paul hirschbuhler ; 14 . the structure of parametric change , and v - movement in the history of english anthony warner ; part iv . scrambling and morphological change : 15 . directionality and word orderchange in the history of english ian roberts ; 16 . on the relation between morphological and syntactic case fred weerman ; 17 . the rise of positional licensing paul kiparsky ; the papers by kiparsky , roberts and weerman : an epilogue hoskuldur thrainsson ; references ; index . ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html a notional theory of syntactic categories john m . anderson ( university of edinburgh ) ; a notional theory of syntactic categories ; isbn : 0-521 - 58023 - 4 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 365 pp . ; pub . date : 4 / 28 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 69 . 95 ; this book presents an innovative theory of syntactic categories and the lexical classes they define . it revives the traditional idea that these are to be distinguished notionally ( semantically ) . the author proposes a notation based on semantic features that accounts for the syntactic behavior of classes . the book also presents a case for considering this classification - - again in a rather traditional vein - - to be basic to determining the syntactic structure of sentences . ; contents : 1 . prelude ; 2 . fundamentals of a notional theory ; 3 . the syntax of categories . ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html the raising of predicates : predicative noun phrases and the theory of clause structure andrea moro ( istituto scientifico h san raffaele , milan ) ; the raising of predicates : predicative noun phrases and the theory of clause structure ; isbn : 0-521 - 56233 - 3 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 328 pp . ; pub . date : 1 / 13 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 64 . 95 ; one of the basic premises of the theory of syntax is that clause structures can be minimally identified as containing a verb phrase , playing the role of predicate , and a noun phrase , playing the role of subject . in this study andrea moro identifies a new category of copular sentences , namely inverse copular sentences , where the predicative noun phrase occupies the position that is canonically reserved for subjects . in the process , he sheds new light on such classical issues as the distribution and nature of expletives , locality theory and cliticization phenomena . ; contents : 1 . the anomaly of copular sentences : the raising of predicates ; 2 . the syntax of ci ; 3 . are there parameters in semantics ? the defining properties of e ! xistential sentences ; 4 . the ' quasi-copula ' : on the role of finite clauses in seem-sentences ; 5 . a view beyond : unaccusativity as an epiphenomenon ; appendix : a brief history of the copula . ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html
