Subject: lexical functional grammar conf : final call for papers

final call for papers lfg98 1998 international lexical functional grammar conference 30 june - 2 july 1998 the university of queensland , brisbane , australia - - - - > submission receipt deadline : 30 january 1998 < - - - - url : http : / / www . sultry . arts . usyd . edu . au / lfg98 / enquiries : lfg98 @ sultry . arts . usyd . edu . au you are invited you to participate in lfg98 which will take place from 30 june till 2 july 1998 at emmanuel college , the university of queensland , brisbane , australia . lfg98 , the third in a series of international conferences , will take place just before the australian linguistic society annual meeting and the two week australian linguistic institute . the conference welcomes work both within the formal architecture of lexical - functional grammar and typological , formal , and computational work within the 's pirit of lfg ' , as a lexicalist approach to language employing a parallel , constraint-based framework . the conference aims to promote interaction and collaboration among researchers interested in nonderivational approaches to grammar , where grammar is seen as the interaction of constraints from multiple levels , including category information , grammatical relations , and semantic information . further information about the syntactic theory lfg can be obtained from : http : / / clwww . essex . ac . uk / lfg / participation lfg98 will be attended by most of the leading figures in the international lfg community including farrell ackerman , avery andrews , kersti borjars , joan bresnan , mary dalrymple , ron kaplan , k . p . mohanan , tara mohanan , nigel vincent , annie zaenen , . . . submissions the conference will involve 20 - minute talks , poster / system presentations , and workshops . talks and poster presentations will focus on results from completed as well as ongoing research , with an emphasis on novel approaches , methods , ideas , and perspectives , whether descriptive , theoretical , formal or computational . we particularly welcome papers and suggestions for workshops on languages of the asia - pacific region . abstracts and papers must be received by 30 january 1998 , and should be submitted to the program committee chairs at the address given below . organisers and their contact addresses send paper / abstract / poster submissions and inquiries about submissions to : program committee chairs : tracy king < thking @ parc . xerox . com > miriam butt < miriam . butt @ uni-konstanz . de > mail : tracy holloway king information sciences and technologies laboratory xerox parc 3333 coyote hill road palo alto ca 94304 usa contact the conference organisers at : organisers : christopher manning < cmanning @ mail . usyd . edu . au > jane simpson < jhs @ mail . usyd . edu . au > email : lfg98 @ sultry . arts . usyd . edu . au mail : christopher manning or jane simpson linguistics f12 university of sydney nsw 2006 australia more information ( registration , abstract specifications , etc . ) more information is available in the full call for papers , available at the conference website : http : / / www . sultry . arts . usyd . edu . au / lfg98 /
