Subject: cognitive linguistics

possession : cognitive sources , forces and grammaticalization bernd heine ( university of cologne ) ; possession : cognitive sources , forces and grammaticalization ; isbn : 0-521 - 55037 - 8 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 290 pp . ; pub . date : 6 / 30 / 97 publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 64 . 95 ; bernd heine argues that the structure of grammatical categories is predictable to a large extent once we know the range of possible cognitive structures from which they are derived . the author uses as his example the structure of predicative possession , and shows how most of the possessive constructions to be found in the world 's languages can be traced back to a small set of basic conceptual patterns . using grammaticalization theory heine describes how each affects the word order and morphosyntax of the resulting possessive construction . ; contents : 1 . the state / 2 . the process / 3 . on attributive possession / 4 . from possession to aspect / 5 . evaluation / appendix : a world-wide survey of have-constructions / references ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html color categories in thought and language color categories in thought and language ; isbn : 0-521 - 49693 - 4 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 414 pp . ; c . l . hardin , ed . ( emeritus , syracuse university ) ; pub . date : 7 / 30 / 97 publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 74 . 95 ; twenty - five years ago , berlin and kay argued that there are commonalities of basic color term use that extend across languages and cultures , and probably express universal features of perception and cognition . in this volume , a distinguished team of contributors from visual science , psychology , linguistics and anthropology examine how these claims have fared in the light of current knowledge , surveying key ideas , results and techniques from the study of human color vision as well as field methods and theoretical interpretations drawn from linguistic anthropology . order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html mappings in thought and language gilles fauconnier ( university of california , san diego ) ; mappings in thought and language ; isbn : 0-521 - 46062 - x ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 217 pp . ; pub . date : 4 / 30 / 97 publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 54 . 95 ; meaning in everyday thought and language is constructed at lightning speed . we are not conscious of the staggering complexity of the cognitive operations that drive our simplest behavior . this book reveals the creativity that underlies our effortless use of language in everyday life , when we engage in conversation , understand humor , or solve puzzles . the capacities and principles that we develop from infancy for ordinary thinking and talking are also the ones that drive scientific and artistic thought , high-level reasoning , and conceptual change . ; content : 1 . mappings / 2 . mental space connections / 3 . tense and mood / 4 . analogical counterfactuals / 5 . matching / 6 . blends ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html language and conceptualization language and conceptualization ; isbn : 0-521 - 55303 - 2 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 289 pp . ; jan nuyts , ed . ( university of antwerp ) ; pub . date : 5 / 31 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 59 . 95 ; to what extent is conceptualization based on linguistic representation ? and to what extent is it variable across cultures , communities or even individuals ? of crucial importance in the attempt to develop a comprehensive theory of human cognition , these remain among the most difficult questions in the cognitive sciences . this volume brings together ten new contributions from leading scholars working in a wide cross section of disciplines , including linguistics , anthropology , psychology and philosophy . ; contents : 1 . overview : on the relationship between language and conceptualization , jan nuyts and eric pederson / 2 . from outer to inner space : linguistic categories and non-linguistic thinking , stephen c . levinson / 3 . spatial operations in deixis , cognition and culture , balthasar bickel / 4 . remote worlds : the conceptual representation of linguistic would , paul werth / 5 . role and individual representations of change predicates , eve sweetser / 6 . changing place in english and german : language-specific preferences in the conceptualisation of spatial relations , mary carroll / 7 . mapping conceptual representations into linguistic representations : the role of attention in grammar , russell s . tomlin / 8 . growth points cross-linguistically , david mcneill / 9 . on the modularity of sentence processing : semantical generality and the language of thought , jay atlas / 10 . the contextual basis of cognitive semantics , ronald w . langacker / 11 . the cognitive foundations of pragmatic principles : implications for theories of linguistic and cognitive representation , edward a robinson . order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html comprehension : a paradigm for cognition walter kintsch ( university of colorado , boulder ) ; comprehension : a paradigm for cognition ; isbn : 0-521 - 58360 - 8 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 461 pp . ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 69 . 95 ; in this book , walter kintsch presents a theory of human text comprehension and extends his analysis to related areas . comprehension is conceptualized as a two-stage process : first , approximate , inaccurate representations are constructed via context insensitive construction rules , which are then integrated via a spreading activation constraint satisfaction process . in part i , the general theory is presented and an attempt is made to situate it within the current theoretical landscape in cognitive science . the second part addresses many of the topics that are typically found in a cognitive psychology text , including how word meanings are identified in a discourse context ; how words are combined to form coherent representations of texts , both at the local and global level ; what the role is of working memory in comprehension ; how relevant knowledge is activated during reading ; and what is the distinction between remembering a text and learning from a text . ; contents : 1 . introduction / part i . the theory / 2 . cognition and representation / 3 . propositional representations / 4 . modeling comprehension processes : the construction - integration model / part ii . models of comprehension / 5 . word identification in discourse / 6 . textbases and situation models / 7 . the role of working memory in comprehension / 8 . memory for text / 9 . learning from text / 10 . word problems / 11 . beyond text ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html
