Subject: icslp ' 98

call for papers for the 5th international conference on spoken language processing icslp ' 98 sydney convention & exhibition centre november 30th - december 4th 1998 the icslp ' 98 conference will continue the eight year tradition of the icslp series in bringing together professionals from all the diverse disciplines that contribute to spoken language processing . it will be the premier international display of the state-of - the-art in this broad field in 1998 . the conference will build bridges between people and sub-disciplines in order to create and nurture synergies that are important for the future of the field . keynote presentations and other plenary events which bring both experience and vision of multi-disciplinary attacks on grand challenges in spoken language processing in both humans and machines will contribute to our aims . a student day at which full-time student registrants may present their ideas under the guidance of senior mentors is also planned . however , it is the quality of the delegate presentations which will be the major factor in making icslp ' 98 a truly landmark event . this call for papers offers to you the opportunity to be a part of this significant event . co-sponsoring societies acoustical society of america acoustical society of china acoustical society of japan acoustical society of korea association for computational linguistics association for computational linguistics and chinese language processing audiological society of australia inc . australian linguistic society european speech communication association ieee signal processing society international phonetic association international society for phonetic sciences international advisory board souguil j . m . ann , seoul national university , korea jens p . blauert , ruhr - universitaet , germany michael brooke , university of bath , united kingdom timothy bunnell , university of delaware , usa anne cutler , max - planck - institute for psycholinguistics , netherlands hiroya fujisaki , science university of tokyo , japan julia hirschberg , at&t bell laboratories , usa bjorn granstrom , royal institute of technology , sweden lin - shan lee , national taiwan university , taiwan roger moore , defence research authority , united kingdom john j . ohala , university of california , berkeley , usa louis c . w . pols , university of amsterdam , netherlands christel sorin , centre nationale d ' etude des telecommunications , france yoh ' ichi tohkura , atr , japan jialu zhang , academia sinica , china conference secretariat tour hosts conference & exhibition organisers gpo box 128 sydney nsw 2000 australia tel : + 61 2 9262 2277 fax : + 61 2 9262 3135 email : icslp98 @ tourhosts . com . au submission procedure submissions are invited in any of the following technical topic areas : a . human speech production , acoustic - phonetics and articulatory models b . human speech perception c . language acquisition : first and second languages d . spoken language and dialogue modelling ; dialogue systems e . isolated word recognition f . large vocabulary continuous speech recognition g . utterance verification and word spotting h . speaker adaptation and normalisation in speech recognition i . speaker and language recognition ; dialects and speaking styles j . multilingual perception and recognition k . signal processing , speech analysis and feature extraction l . robust speech processing in adverse environments m . hidden markov model techniques n . artificial neural networks , fuzzy and evolutionary algorithms o . spoken language understanding systems p . text - to - speech synthesis q . prosody and emotion ; focus , stress and accent r . speech coding s . spoken language generation systems ; concept - to - speech t . spoken language translation systems u . analysis of speech and hearing disorders v . speech processing for the speech - impaired and hearing - impaired w . segmentation , labelling and speech corpora x . speech technology applications and human - machine interfaces y . spoken language processing and multimodality z . other areas of spoken language processing format of submission acceptance of papers for presentation at the conference will be on the basis of reviewed summaries . you should submit a summary of your paper comprising approximately 500 words . at the top of the page , please specify the following : corresponding author contact details : full name full postal mail address email address fax number phone number proposed paper details : paper title author list topic id ( a - z ) four additional keywords presentation preference ( oral , poster , student day ) the topic id should be a single category from the topic list specified as an alphabetic letter ; if your submission falls within the broad area of spoken language processing but is not explicitly represented in the topic list , please use the z category . the four additional keywords are requested in order to assist the programme committee in assigning reviewers . means of submission electronic submission of summaries via the world wide web is preferred . a summary submission form is available via url at http : / / cslab . anu . edu . au / icslp98 alternatively , a pro-forma for email submission can be obtained from this url or by emailing icslp98 @ tourhosts . com . au . email submissions should be sent to icslp98 @ one . net . au . if electronic submission is not possible , postal submissions ( 4 copies ) to the icslp ' 98 secretariat address specified below will be accepted provided that they adhere to the above format . please do not fax submissions . restrictions on submissions please note that only ascii summaries written in english will be accepted . do not include any attachments , graphics , or embedded formatting commands . given the large number of submissions we expect to receive , anything that cannot be printed directly will be rejected without consideration . acknowledgment of receipt you should receive an acknowledgment of receipt within 72 hours of electronically submitting your summary . if this does not happen , then you should resend your submission by email to icslp98 @ one . net . au with the word resubmission at the beginning of the subject line . if an acknowledgment is still not forthcoming , an email problem should be assumed , and the summary submitted by fax . please do not resubmit or send by fax for any other reasons than lack of acknowledgment from the conference . conditions of acceptance all papers must be presented in english by one of the listed authors . that author will be required to register no later than the full-paper submission date . summaries will not be accepted after the submission date . student day submissions students wishing to submit papers for the sst student day should submit summaries as above . these submissions will be separately reviewed and published under the banner of the 7th australian speech science & technology conference and will also be included on the cdrom containing the icslp ' 98 proceedings . submission addresses world wide web : url = http : / / cslab . anu . edu . au / icslp98 e - mail submission : icslp98 @ one . net . au postal : icslp ' 98 secretariat , gpo box 128 , sydney , nsw 2001 , australia technical queries : robert dale - email : rdale @ mpce . mq . edu . au general information : email : icslp98 @ tourhosts . com . au important dates friday 1st may , 1998 paper summaries due for review friday 26th june , 1998 acceptance notification friday 21st august , 1998 deadline for full-paper submission
