Subject: new series : studies in corpus linguistics

john benjamins publishing would like to call your attention to a new series ; studies in corpus linguistics studies in corpus linguistics aims to provide insights into the way a corpus can be used , the type of findings that can be obtained , the possible applications of these findings as well as the theoretical changes that corpus work can bring into linguistics and language engineering . the main concern of scl will be to present findings based on , or related to , the cumulative effect of naturally occurring language and on the interpretation of frequency and distributional data . general editor : elena tognini - bonelli consulting editor : wolfgang teubert terms in context jennifer pearson 1998 xii , 246 pp . studies in corpus linguistics , 1 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 342 4 price : us $ 69 . 00 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 2269 x price : nlg 138 john benjamins publishing web site : http : / / www . benjamins . com for further information via e-mail : service @ benjamins . com terms in context applies the methodology that has been developed over the last two decades in corpus linguistics to the relatively new and still little developed field of corpus-based terminography . while corpora are already being used by some terminologists fro the identification of terms and retrieval of contextual fragments , his book describes the first attempt to use corpora for terminography in much the same way as large general reference corpora are already being used for general language lexicography . the author goes beyond the standard problem of identifying terms , as opposed to non-terminological lexical items in text and focuses on identifying metalanguage patterns which point to the presence in text of ( parts of ) reusable definitions of terms . the author examines these and shows how the information which they contain can be retrieved and used as input for terminological entries . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - bernadette martinez - keck tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / marketing fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamins north america e-mail : bernie @ benjamins . com po box 27519 philadelphia pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamins web site : http : / / www . benjamins . com
