Subject: books on interpreting

john benjamins publishing would like to call your attention to the following new titles in the field of interpreting : the critical link . interpreters in the community . papers from the first international conference on interpreting in legal , health and social service settings . geneva park , canada , 1 - 4 june 1995 silvana carr , roda roberts , aideen dufour & dini steyn ( eds . ) 1997 viii , 322 pp . benjamins translation library , 19 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 701 2 price : $ 79 . 00 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 1620 7 price : hfl . 158 , - - john benjamins publishing web site : http : / / www . benjamins . com for further information via e-mail : service @ benjamins . com what is community interpreting ? what are the roles of the community interpreter ? what are the standards , evaluation methods and accreditation procedures pertaining to community interpreting ? what training is available or required in this field ? what are the current issues and practices in community interpreting in different parts of the world ? these key questions , discussed at the first international conference on community interpreting , are addressed in this collection of selected conference papers . the merit of this volume is that it presents the first comprehensive and global view of a rapidly growing profession , which has developed out of the need to provide services to those who do not speak the official language ( s ) of a country . both the problems and the successes related to the challenge of providing adequate community interpreting services in different countries are covered in this volume . contributions by : sherrill j . bell ; virginia benmaman ; carolyn bullock & brian harris ; silvana carr ; terry chesher ; ann corsellis ; birgitta englund dimitrova ; sabine fenton ; julia puebla fortier ; yvonne fowler ; nathan garber & louise mauffette - leenders ; adolfo gentile ; sandra hale ; elizabeth lascar ; suzanne michael & marianne cocchini ; holly mikkelson & hanne mintz ; christine penney & susan sammons ; franz pochhacker ; roda p . roberts ; nancy schweda nicholson & bodil martinsen ; roy thomas ; cecilia wadensjo . conference interpreting : current trends in research proceedings of the international conference on interpreting : what do we know and how ? yves gambier , daniel gile & christopher taylor ( eds . ) 1997 iv , 246 pp . benjamins translation library , 23 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 707 1 price : us $ 75 . 00 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 1626 6 price : hfl . 150 , - - john benjamins publishing web site : http : / / www . benjamins . com for further information via e-mail : service @ benjamins . com ' conference interpreting : what do we know and how ? ' is the title of a round-table conference ( turku , 1994 ) organised to assess the state of the art in conference interpreting research . the result is collected in this volume with fully coordinated reports on the round tables . the book presents an exciting coverage of the field , touching on methodology , communication , discourse , culture , neurolinguistic and cognitive aspects , quality assessment , training and developing skills . contributions by : john dodds and david katan ; franco fabbro and laura gran ; daniel gile ; masaomi kondo and helen tebble ; per linell ; barbara moser - mercer ; miriam shlesinger ; david snelling ; charles tijus ; jorma tommola ; carol taylor torsello and all those who participated in the round table discussion . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - bernadette martinez - keck tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / marketing fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamins north america e-mail : bernie @ benjamins . com po box 27519 philadelphia pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamins web site : http : / / www . benjamins . com
