Subject: thinking with diagrams 1998

twd98 thinking with diagrams : is there a science of diagrams ? workshop call for participation university of wales , aberystwyth , uk 22-23 august 1998 registration deadline : 22nd july 1998 diagrams are essential in most fields of human activity . there is substantial interest in diagrams and their use in many academic disciplines for the potential benefits they may confer on a wide range of tasks . are we now in a position to claim that we have a science of diagrams ? that is , a science which takes the nature of diagrams and their use as the central phenomena of interest . a science which is attempting to understand how diagrams differ from other representational systems and trying to develop principles for the design of effective graphical representations . a science which considers how diagrams communicate information and how they are used to solve problems . if we have a science of diagrams it is certainly constituted from multiple disciplines , including : cognitive science , psychology , artificial intelligence , logic , mathematics , and others . if there is a science of diagrams , then like other sciences , there is an applications or " engineering " discipline that exists alongside the science . applications and engineering provide tests of the theories and principles discovered by the science and extend the scope of the phenomena to be studied by generating new uses of diagrams , new media for presenting diagrams , or novel classes of diagram . this applications and engineering side of the science of diagrams also comprises multiple disciplines , including : education , architecture , computer science , mathematics , human - computer interaction , knowledge acquisition , graphic design , engineering , history of science , statistics , medicine , biology , and others . the theme of twd98 will be - is there a science of diagrams ? by providing a forum for the presentation and discussion of quality research on diagrams and diagram use , we not only try to answer this question , but more importantly attempt draw together the many different approaches , theories and results that we have in the many diverse disciplines that are concerned with diagrams . the question provides a vehicle on which to attempt to integrate what is currently a disparate and disordered set of activities into a more rational and coherent programme of research . is there any common core to the activities which provides a basis for the claim that the twd community could constitute a science ? more information and the workshop registration form can be found at the thinking with diagrams home page : http : / / www . aber . ac . uk / ~ plo / twd98 or contact : patrick olivier ( plo @ aber . ac . uk ) thinking with diagrams ( twd98 ) department of computer science university of wales , aberystwyth ceredigion , uk sy23 3db tel : + 44 1970 622424 / fax : + 44 1970 622455 the twd98 programme will include : ( i ) technical sessions for the presentations of papers ; ( ii ) invited talks on issues relevant to the twd community as a whole ; ( iii ) a panel session on the theme of twd98 . invited presentations : 1 . arthur i miller university college london " visual representations of nature " 2 . aaron sloman university of birmingham " diagrams in the mind ? " 3 . clive richards , school of art and design , coventry university " diagrammatics " other presentations : 1 . peter cheng ( university of nottingham ) avow diagrams : a novel representational system for understanding electricity 2 . mateja jamnik , alan bundy & ian green ( university of edinburgh ) verification of diagrammatic proofs 3 . maria kozhevnikov , mary hegarty & richard mayer ( techion & uc santa barbara ) visual / spatial abilities in problem solving in physics 4 . sun - joo shin ( university of notre dame ) multiple readings of pierces alpha system 5 . alan blackwell & yuri engelhardt ( cambridge apu and university of amsterdam ) a taxonomy of diagram taxonomies 6 . robert kosara , silvia miksch , yuval shahar & peter johnson ( vienna university of technology & stanford university ) asbru - view : capturing complex , time - oriented plans 7 . jo calder ( university of edinburgh ) how to build a ( quite general ) linguistic diagram editor 8 . adam vile & simon polovina ( south bank university ) thinking of or thinking through diagrams ? 9 . mark minas ( university of erlangen ) specifying diagram languages by means of hypergraph grammars 10 . simon ungar , mark blades & christopher spencer ( glasgow caledonian university & university of sheffield ) can a tactile map facilitate learning of related information by visually impaired people ? 11 . daniela m . bailer - jones ( universitt paderborn ) sketches and visualisation as mental reifications of theoretical scientific treatment 12 . leon rozenblit , michael spivey - knowlton & julie wojslawowiz ( cornell university ) mechanical reasoning about gear-and - belt diagrams : do eye - movements predict performance ? 13 . nadine lucas & nathalie coussin - rittemard ( limsi & utrecht university ) acting with diagrams : how to plan strategies 14 . herman j . adr ( vrije universiteit ) diagramming research designs posters 15 . william godwin ( cheltenham and gloucester college ) a tectonic theory for graphical notation design 16 . jean - louis giavitto & erika valencia ( lri - universit paris sud ) using simplicial complexes to model internal diagrammatic representations 17 . hernan casakin ( techion ) diagrams , sketches , and the use of analogy in design problem - solving : experts and novices 18 . glen bell & david wilson ( university of technology , sydney ) diagramming issue surrounding application architectures 19 . andrew basden ( university of salford ) researching the with in thinking with diagrams
