Subject: cssi conference on spatial cognition

mind iii : annual conference of the cognitive science society of ireland theme : spatial cognition dublin city university , dublin , ireland august 17-19 , 1998 you are invited to participate in the annual conference of the cssi , on the theme of spatial cognition , at dublin city university from august 17-19 , 1998 . this conference will bring together researchers from different cognitive science disciplines ( psychology , computer science , linguistics , and cognitive geography ) who are studying different aspects of spatial cognition . the conference will provide a forum for researchers to share insights about different aspects of spatial cognition and from the perspective of different disciplines . the academic programme will begin at 9 : 00 a . m . on august 17th and end on 19th . the social programme will include a barbecue and ceili ( traditional irish dance ) on tuesday 18th and a tour and concert on wednesday after the end of the academic programme . for information on registration and accommodation , please visit the web page at : http : / / www . psych . ucsb . edu / ~ hegarty / cssi / the deadline for early registration is july 15th ( after that the price increases significantly ) . for questions about the programme , contact mary hegarty : hegarty @ psych . ucsb . edu for questions about registration and local arrangements , contact sean o nuallain : sonualla @ compapp . dcu . ie programme keynote speakers : michel denis , groupe cognition humaine , limsi-cnrs , universite de paris - sud andrew frank , department of geoinformation , technical university wien talk presentations : environmental spatial cognition g . allen , university of south carolina men and women , maps and minds : cognitive bases of sex-related differences in reading and interpreting maps c . christou & h . bulthoff , max - planck institute for biological cybernetics , tubingen using virtual environments to study spatial encoding d . jacobson , r . kitchin , t . garling , r . golledge & m . blades , university of california , santa barbara , queens university of belfast , gotenborg university learning a complex urban route without sight : comparing naturalistic versus laboratory measures p . peruch , f . gaunet , c . thinus - blanc , m - d . giroudo , cnrs , marseille & cnrs - college de france , paris real and imagined perspective changes in visual versus locomotor navigation m . j . sholl , boston college the accessibility of metric relations in self-to - object and object-to - object systems language and space t . baguley & s . j . payne , loughborough university and cardiff university of wales given - new versus new-given ? an analysis of reading times for spatial descriptions k . c . coventry & m . prat - sala , university of plymouth the interplay between geometry and function in the comprehension of spatial propositions j . gurney & e . kipple , army research laboratory , adelphi , md composing conceptual structure for spoken natural language in a virtual reality environment s . huang , national taiwan university spatial representation in a language without prepositions s . taub , gallaudet university iconic spatial language in asl : concrete and metaphorical applications c . vorwerg , university of bielefeld production and understanding of direction terms as a categorization process computation and spatial cognition m . eisenberg & a . eisenberg , university of colorado designing real-time software advisors for 3 - d spatial operations j . gasos & a . saffiotti , iridia , universite libre de brruxelles fuzzy sets for the representation of uncertain spatial knowledge in autonomous robots r . k . lindsay , university of michigan discovering diagrammatic demonstrations p . mckevitt , aalborg university and university of sheffield chameleon meets spatial cognition d . r . montello , m . f . goodchild , p . fohl & j . gottsegen , university of california , santa barbara implementing fuzzy spatial queries : problem statement and behavioral science methods s . o nuallain & j . kelleher , dublin city university spoken image meets vrml and java spatial reasoning and problem solving m . gattis , max planck institute for psychological research , munich mapping relational structure in visual reasoning j . n . mcgregor , t . c . ormerod & e . p . chronicle , university of victoria and lancaster university spatial and conceptual factors in human performance on the traveling salesperson problem p . d . pearson , r . h . logie & k . j . gilhooly , university of aberdeen verbal representations and spatial manipulation during mental synthesis l . rozenblit , m . spivey & j . wojslawowicz mechanical reasoning about gear-and - belt systems : do eye-movements predict performance ? c . sophian & m . crosby , university of hawaii at manoa ratios that even young children understand : the case of spatial proportions theoretical perspectives : r . h . logie , department of aberdeen constraints on visuo-spatial working memory n . h . narayanan , auburn university exploring virtual information landscapes : spatial cognition meets information visualization a . smith , national research council , canada spatial cognition without spatial concepts c . speed & d . g . tobin , university of plymouth space under stress : spatial understanding and new media technologies m . tiressa , a . caressa and g . geminiani , universita di torino & universita di padova a theoretical framework for the study of spatial cognition poster presentations m . betrancourt , a . pellegrin & l . tardif , research institut , inria rhone - alpes using a spatial display to represent the temporal structure of multimedia documents m . bollaert , limsi-cnrs , university de paris - sud a connectionist model of mental imagery k borner & c vorwerg , university of bielefeld applying vr technology to the study of spatial perception and cognition a . caressa , a . abrigliano & g . geminiani , universita de padova & universita di torino . describers and explorers : a method to investigate cognitive maps . e . p . chronicle , t . c . ormerod & j . mcgregor . lancaster university and university of victoria when insight just won't come : the failure of visual cues in the nine-dot problem . r . coates , c . j . hamilton & t . heffernan , university of teeside and university of northumbria at newcastle in search of the visual and spatial characteristics of visuo-spatial working memory g . fernandez , lmsi-cnrs individual differences in the processing of route directions r . hornig , b . claus & k . eyferth , technical university of berlin in search for an overall organizing principle in spatial mental models : a question of inference m - c . grobety , m . morand & f . schenk cognitive mapping across visually disconnected environments n . gotts , university of wales , aberystwyth describing the topology of spherical regions using the " rcc " formalism x . guilarova , moscow m . v . lomosonov state university polysemy of adjective " round " via lakoff 's radical category structuring j . s . longstaff , laban center , london cognitive structures of kinesthetic space : reevaluating rudolph labanus choreutics u . schmid , s . wiebrock & f . wysotzki , technical university of berlin modeling spatial inferences in text understanding programme committee : ruth byrne , trinity college dublin jerome feldman , university of california , berkeley mary hegarty , university of california , santa barbara ( program chair ) christopher habel , university of hamburg george lakoff , university of california , berkeley robert h . logie , university of aberdeen jack loomis , university of california , santa barbara paul mc kevitt , aalborg university and university of sheffield daniel r . montello , university of california , santa barbara n . hari naryanan , auburn university and georgia institute of technology patrick olivier , university of wales , aberystwyth sean o nuallain , dublin city university ( co - chair ) terry regier , university of chicago keith stenning , edinburgh university michael spivey , cornell university arnold smith , national research council , canada barbara tversky , stanford university
