Subject: review any book , pc or mac software pgm , consumer products and keep them !

we are celebrating our 50th issue of our inet reviews newsletter inet reviews weekly news brief may 7 , 1999 contents : oklahomans pick up the pieces , count the cost book , software , & consumer product reviewers needed top on-line editions of national magazines best seller book list some interesting articles in on-line magazines hot web sites , topics & trends webmaster free link offer need marketing reps - use your computer to earn referral income new web camera site this is a trial issue of our free opt-in weekly newsletter . the purpose of this eclectic newsletter is to alert you to interesting news and information on the web . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - item # 01 : inet reviews needs book , software , consumer product and movie reviewers . you may request any product to review and we have the publisher or manufacturer ship it to your home at no charge . you write a brief review and post it to our web site and you keep the review title . we also need individuals to receive free movie review passes to your local theater to review new movies . for your free reviewer information kit please reply to this email message or to karicohen @ iname . com with the words starter 507b in the message subject line . lead stories oklahomans pick up the pieces , count the cost death toll could double ; survivors sift through rubble and get ready to rebuild | photo essay www . time . com shadow in the shallows the navy 's next nuclear submarine will lurk stealthily offshore , using advanced sensors and weaponry to attack land targets . and it does n't need a periscope www . popsci . com if you like this article , you must read sherry sontag 's blind man 's bluff - the untold story of american submarine espionage . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - item # 02 : top on-line editions of national magazines . time magazine www . time . com fortune magazine www . fortune . com business week www . businessweek . com people magazine www . people . com popular science www . popsci . com usa today www . usatoday . com visit these great magazine sites and bookmark them . check each every few days and save yourself a ton of money by not buying them from the newsstand . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - item # 03 www . amazon . com best seller list - fiction 1 . the girl who loved tom gordon by stephen king 2 . a new song by jan karon 3 . hart 's war : a novel by john katzenbach 4 . the best american short stories of the century by john updike ( introduction ) , et al 5 . bittersweet by danielle steel as a reviewer for inet reviews you may request any book and keep it after you post a brief review to our web site . inet reviews is one of the largest review web sites on the internet . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - item # 04 - interesting articles on the web how the internet hits big music www . fortune . com addicted to sex - www . fortune . com unmasking black holes jean - pierre lasota evidence for black holes was until recently all circumstantial . distinguishing them at a distance from other highly compact , gravitationally massive bodies such as neutron stars is inherently problematic . now astronomers may have direct proof : energy is vanishing from volumes of space without a trace . scientific american http : / / www . sciam . com / 1999 / 0599issue / 0599gonzalez . html - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - item # 05 : hot web sites , trends & topics go to www . hotbot . com they have an mpc search engine . way ahead of the other search engines in this area . mp3 is the fastest growing segment of the web site . what is mp3 ? this is a new file compression that is the standard for compressing music on the internet . it gives you near cd - quality music that you can download . the music publishers hate it with a passion are trying to do everything they can to squash it . so you must get a inexpensive cd-rom writer ( $ 199 after rebate at www . compusa . com ) and start downloading your favorite tunes and making your own mix a copy them down to your own cd . i have a cable modem and can download them fast and have currently created 15 audio cd 's with my favorite tunes . no longer do you have to lay out $ 15 for a cd to get one good song and 11 other fillers . if you have a neat web site that you wish to share with our readers , send it to kristen @ fastermail . com with the single word webpick in the message subject line and the name of the web site and the exact url or web site address in the message body . we will give you a byline under your pick if we use it in an issue of this newsletter . webmasters only : we will pay you a $ 3 . 00 referral fee and put your link on three of our very high traffic web sites . reply to this email with the word uplink in the message subject line . we will email you the complete details . earn referral income with your home computer we have a referral program where you can use your home computer to generate significant monthly referral income . reply to this email with the single word income in the message subject line . we will send you complete information . new web cam site firm is placing a web cam in the homes of three young women . this is not an xxx site but just a web cam site . if you would like a free preview please reply to this email message with the word hidden in the message subject line . we will email you instructions on how to get your free preview . if you cannot reply to our email message for any reason , please send a sase to inet reviews , 6050 peachtree parkway , suite 240-238 , norcross , ga 30092 , attn : starter kit desk . your free review starter kit will be mailed the day we receive your self addressed stamped envelope . * * * * * * * * * * * * * end of inet reviews * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * this is an opt-in short weekly newsletter designed to alert you to some mainstream news aspects of the internet and an eclectic mix of interesting web topics , trends & topics . to be removed from our email database please email a message to karicohen @ iname . com with the single word remove in the message subject line . our software will remove your email address from our database . this is an opt-in newsletter trial issue . we do add all remove request to our local remove database .
