Subject: stock market information for you

sender : trinity ventures , inc . address : 1911 westmead # 2710 , houston , tx 7707 call or fax toll free : 877-393 - 7237 hours : 9 am to 5 pm cst hi , we received your e-mail address as someone who is interested in stock market information . this e-mail is for informational purposes only . it is not an offer to sell or solicit securities . if you do not wish to receive this type of information , please click on " reply " and put " remove " in the subject . we will permanently remove your address from our database . to get more news and to help with your due diligence on abrg , go to www . yahoo . com and click on " stock quotes " . then put abrg in the symbol lookup area and click on " get quotes " . happy investing ! - dean casias president trinity ventures , inc . news release ambra resources group inc . # 610-800 west pender street vancouver , b . c . canada v6c 2v6 symbol abrg ( otc : bb ) acquisition of venture oil & gas , inc . by ambra resources group inc . adds new projects for ambra vancouver , british columbia - may 4 , 1999 ambra resources group inc . ( otc bb : abrg ) , has acquired 50 % ownership of venture oil & gas , inc . ambra will become a 50 % owner in the properties and projects in which venture has an interest . the consideration for ambra 's purchase of 50 % of the capital stock of venture inc . will be one million shares of ambra common stock . as part of this acquisition , venture will assign to ambra , 50 % of its interest in the bastian bay field prospect , state lease " 9800 " no . 1 well , in plaquemines parish , louisiana . additional projects will be assigned to ambra by venture as ambra shall have the right at any time to request assignments of 50 % of any or all interests retained by venture in various projects . the primary business of ventures inc . is to acquire oil and gas properties on which re-mediation or re-completion work will result in enhanced recovery rates that will bring the wells back to commercial production . current economic conditions in the petroleum industry facilitate the acquisition of very good properties which larger producing companies have declared as surplus properties . ambra and venture inc . are in the favorable position of being able to acquire such properties while the inventory of such offerings is at high levels . venture is currently negotiating the acquisition of multiple oil and gas projects in texas , louisiana and oklahoma , which the parties anticipate will add significantly to ambra 's resource base of productive projects . by the board of directors john m . hickey , president contact : ambra resources group inc . investor relations : 800-698 - 3377 or 604-669 - 2723 web site : http : / / www . ambraresources . com this release is for informational purposes only . it is not an offer to sell or solicit securities or products of any kind . this release may include information that could constitute forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 . any such forward-looking statements may involve risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results encompassed within the forward-looking statements . the materials are provided by ambra resources group inc . on an " as is " basis . ambra resources group inc . expressly disclaims any and all warranties , expressed or implied , including without limitation , warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose , with respect to the service or any materials and products . in no event shall ambra resources group inc . be liable for any direct , indirect , incidental , punitive or consequential damages of any kind whatsoever with respect to the service , the materials and the products . trinity ventures , inc . has received a fee of $ 5 , 000 to distribute this document . if you would like to permanently remove your e-mail address from our files call or fax us toll free at 877-393 - 7237 ; or just click on " reply " and put " remove " in the subject .
