Subject: computational linguistics

acl ' 99 student session call for papers 37th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics 20 - - 26 june , 1999 university of maryland [ you may find it easier to read this information on the web at http : / / www . cs . utoronto . ca / ~ melanie / acl99 / ] 1 . purpose the goal of the student sessions is to provide a forum for student members to present _ work in progress _ and receive feedback from other members of the computational linguistics community . the session will consist of paper presentations by student authors . the number of papers accepted is contingent on the quality of the submissions and the availability of presentation time during the conference , but the student session will be at least half a day . the accepted papers will be published in a special section of the conference proceedings . note that the student session and the main conference session are independent ; students are free to submit to either session , and each submission will be evaluated independently and with respect to the criteria set out by the respective organizing committees . 2 . requirements papers should describe original , unpublished work that is in progress and demonstrates insight , creativity , and promise . topics of interest are the same as for the main conference or the thematic sessions . 2 . 1 submission restrictions due to differences in format requirements , papers submitted to the main conference _ cannot _ be considered for the student sessions . students may , of course , submit different papers to the main conference and the student session , or papers on different aspects of a particular problem or project . note that for papers presenting joint work , _ all _ co-authors must be students . papers may be submitted to other conferences , but this must be clearly indicated on the cover page . the official language of the conference is english , and hence student papers should be written in english . 2 . 2 length the maximum allowable length is 3 pages ( about 1800 words ) , including references . 2 . 3 format of submission submissions packages should consist of a title page , followed by the paper . the title page should contain : o the paper 's title ; o the name and affiliations of the author ( s ) ; o a complete address for each author ; o an abstract ; o a designation of the topic area ( s ) ( one or two ) ; o a statement about submission to other conferences ( e . g . , ' none ' or a list ) ; and o the paper id code ( see below ) . we recommend that if the student authors plan to apply for travel grants , that they include the application form ( please see " travel grants " ) with their paper submission . 2 . 4 electronic submission code to identify each paper , an id code _ must _ be acquired by filing an electronic paper registration form ( http : / / www . mri . mq . edu . au / conf / acl99 / register . html ) ; upon successful completion of this form , an id code will be sent to the designated author by e-mail . if you cannot access the electronic paper registration form , send email to acl99 @ mri . mq . edu . au with subject idform for an automatic reply . 2 . 5 medium of submission authors must submit their papers electronically . only in unusual cases will hard copy submissions be allowed . electronic submissions should be either self-contained latex source , postscript , or pdf ( we encourage latex submissions ) . postscript submissions must use a standard font . latex submissions should not refer to any other external files or styles except for the standard styles for tex 3 . 14 and latex 2 . 09 . the bibliography for a latex submission cannot be submitted as separate . bib file ; the actual bibliography entries must be inserted in the submitted latex source file . we strongly recommend the use of acl - standard latex or word style files for the preparation of submissions ( please note that while we do not accept word - format files for electronic submission , postscript files produced from them are acceptable ) . these styles include a place for the required information such as id code and word count , and allow for a graceful transition to the style required for publication . these files are available from the main conference web site at http : / / www . mri . mq . edu . au / conf / acl99 . if you cannot use the acl - standard styles directly , a description of the required format is at http : / / www . mri . mq . edu . au / conf / acl99 / style / substyle . html . if you cannot access this web page , send email to acl99 @ mri . mq . edu . au with subject substyle for an automatic reply . 2 . 6 blind reviewing since reviewing will be ` blind ' , the heading of the paper should omit author names and addresses ( this information will be inlcuded in the title page ) . self - references that reveal the authors ' identity ( e . g . , " we previously showed ( smith , 1991 ) . . . " ) should be avoided . instead , use references in a neutral form ( e . g . , " smith previously showed ( 1991 ) . . . " ) . furthermore , avoid obvious giveaways in the bibliography such as listings for unpublished in-house technical reports . 2 . 7 caveat papers outside the specified length and / or without an id code are liable to rejection without review . 2 . 8 questions ? enquiries to the co-chairs of the student session should be sent to acl99 - student @ cs . utoronto . ca . 3 . travel grants please see the student session web page for information about available travel grants ( http : / / cs . utoronto . cs / ~ melanie / acl / ) . 4 . schedule submissions must be received by 8 february 1999 . late submissions ( those arriving on or after 9 february 1999 ) will not be considered . acknowledgments will be emailed soon after receipt . notification of acceptance will be sent to authors ( by email ) by 29 march 1999 . camera - ready copies of final papers must be received by 3 may 1999 , along with a signed copyright release statement . detailed formatting guidelines will be provided to authors with their acceptance notice . the student paper sessions will take place during the main conference on june 23 - - 26 , 1999 .
