Subject: student conference in linguistics

call for papers student conference in linguistics 11 special theme : endangered languages keynote speaker : jonathan david bobaljik may 8 - 9 , 1999 the university of texas at austin the 11th annual student conference in linguistics will be held at the university of texas at austin may 8 - 9 , 1999 . scil is a student-run conference which aims to bring together graduate students from around the world to present their research and build connections with other students . the proceedings are published in the mit working papers in linguistics . we invite original , unpublished work in any area of linguistics . we would particularly like to encourage submissions which focus on endangered or underdescribed languages , in keeping with the conference theme . guidelines for submission : please submit ten copies of a one-page , 500 - word , anonymous abstract for a twenty-minute paper ( optionally , one additional page for data and / or references may be appended ) , along with a 3 " by 5 " card with : ( 1 ) your name , ( 2 ) your affiliation , ( 3 ) your address , phone number , and e-mail address , ( 4 ) the title of the paper , and ( 5 ) an indication of which subdivision of linguistics best describes the topic ( e . g . , phonetics , phonology , syntax , semantics , psycholinguistics , anthropological linguistics , computational linguistics , sociolinguistics , etc . ) the abstract should be as specific as possible , and it should clearly indicate the data covered , outline the arguments presented , and include any broader implications of the work . the deadline for receipt of abstracts is 5 : 00 pm , february 15 , 1999 . send abstracts to : scil 11 abstract committee department of linguistics 501 calhoun hall the university of texas at austin austin , texas 78712 e - mail abstracts will be accepted . please email us or consult our web page for detailed instructions . email abstracts should be submitted to scil @ ccwf . cc . utexas . edu by 5 : 00 pm , february 15 , 1999 . further information is available at http : / / ccwf . cc . utexas . edu / ~ scil / index . html questions can be directed to scil @ ccwf . cc . utexas . edu - ralph c . blight department of linguistics , the university of texas at austin http : / / ccwf . cc . utexas . edu / ~ gizzmo / index . html
