Subject: basic course in neurolinguistics

first circular december 1998 the department of linguistics at the university of oslo and the nordic neurolinguistic network are pleased to announce that a nordic research course , sponsored by the nordic academy for advanced study ( norfa ) : basic course in neurolinguistics will be held at sanner hotell , granavollen 3 - 5 , 2750 gran , norway , june 11-15 , 1999 . the course will consist of three components : ( i ) survey lectures by dr . susan edwards ( department of linguistic science , university of reading ) , dr . heidi hamilton ( department of linguistics , georgetown university ) , dr . matti laine ( department of psychology , turku university ) , professor bruce murdoch ( department of speech pathology and audiology , university of brisbane ) ; ( ii ) seminars with individual presentations by the students and post-paper discussions ; ( iii ) discussion sessions towards the end of a topic area , focusing on the methodological and theoretical issues shared by the papers presented . criteria for student selection in addition to those defined by norfa ( with regard to country of origin , etc . ) are : ( a ) the participants should have a strong background in one or several of the following disciplines or related areas : linguistics , psychology , neurology , cognitive science , phonetics , logopaedics and / or special education . ( b ) the topic of the course ( neurolinguistics ) should occupy a significant position in the phd or post-doctorate studies or study plans of the participants . the number of student participants will be restricted to 20 . pre - course requirements in addition to the general norfa requirements : ( a ) the applicants should send , together with their application , a 3 - 5 page long abstract of their work ( planned or ongoing ) in the topic area of the course . ( b ) a list of required pre-reading material will be sent to the participants in advance of the course . norfa will cover the cost of tuition , board and lodging during the course , and travel expences ( cheapest mode of travel ) for students from the nordic countries . for further details contact the responsible organiser . application procedure : send a free-form application to inger moen ( below ) by march 1 , 1999 . please enclose a brief cv and a 3 - 5 page long abstract of your work ( planned or ongoing ) in the topic area of the course . those accepted will be notified by april 1 . responsible organiser : professor inger moen , department of linguistics , university of oslo , p . o . box 1102 , blindern , n-0317 oslo , norway , phone + 47 22 85 42 64 , fax + 47 22 85 69 19 , e - mail inger . moen @ ilf . uio . no . web site : http : / / www . hf . uio . no / ilf / neurolingcourse99
