Subject: language policy at the millenium

language policy at the millenium call for research reports , case studies , problem statements in language planning and policy the language policy research center in cooperation with the lechter institute and the lewis family fund for international conferences in the humanities are now planning the second international symposium on language policy , language policy at the millennium , to be held at bar - ilan university , ramat gan , israel , from november 23-25 , 1999 . our goal for the symposium is to provide an opportunity to reassess the current status of language policy studies at the end of the century and to clarify theory and methods of the field . we hope to identify questions and define guidelines for the next decade of research . six invited papers will serve as conceptual and theoretical jumping off points for the shorter research reports and case studies requested in this call . the focal papers will be given by joshua a . fishman , joseph lo bianco , lachman khubchandani , peter nelde , carol myers - scotton , and bernard spolsky . in order to offer data-based challenges to the discussion , we invite abstracts of research reports , case studies or statements of a problem in the field of language policy and planning , from which we will select a small number for presentation , each to be juxtaposed with one of the focal papers . in addition , there will be a poster session for presentation of individual research . please submit your abstract of a proposal for a short research report , case study , or statement of a problem in an area of language policy by march 1 , 1999 to joel walters at the address below . notification of acceptance will be sent by april 15 , 1999 . if you have questions , feel free to contact us . sincerely , organizing committee : muhammad amara , bar - ilan university ellen spolsky , bar - ilan university joel walters , bar - ilan university elana shohamy , tel - aviv university bernard spolsky , bar - ilan university language policy research center faculty of humanities bar - ilan university ramat gan , israel 52900 tel . 972 - 3-531 - 8125 fax 972 - 3-535 - 4062 email : waltej @ mail . biu . ac . il additional information will soon be available on the lprc website : http : / www . biu . il / hu / lprc
