Subject: syntax - semantics workshop

call for abstracts move and interpret alpha : workshop on movement-related issues in the syntax , semantics , and the syntax-semantics interface march 20-21 , 1999 keynote speaker : kyle johnson , university of massachusetts , amherst center of excellence kanda university of international studies makuhari , chiba , japan we invite abstract submissions for 40 - minute talks on issues having to do with movement which arise in the areas of syntax , semantics , and the syntax-semantics interface . work which aims to distinguish interpretations by means of movement , discusses the syntactic or semantic repercussions of movement , investigates the syntactic or semantic aspects of movement-created dependencies , or argues for or against the use of movement for dealing with particular syntactic or semantic phenomena is welcome . possibly relevant topics include wh-movement , quantifier raising , reconstruction , quantifier float , island effects , parasitic gaps , pied-piping , and relative clauses . the deadline for receipt of abstracts is january 31st , 1999 . please send five copies of a non-anonymous abstract ( maximally 2 pages in length , using a legible font , with 1 " margins on all sides , a4 or us letter paper ) , along with a sheet of paper bearing the author 's name , affiliation , paper title , and e-mail and regular mail addresses . e - mail submissions will also be accepted ( . ps or . pdf formats ) . send abstracts by mail to : move and interpret alpha workshop coe , kanda university of international studies 1 - 4 - 1 wakaba , mihama - ku chiba - shi , chiba - ken japan 261-0014 send abstracts or questions by e-mail to both uli sauerland and norvin richards at : uli @ kanda . kuis . ac . jp , norvin @ kanda . kuis . ac . jp ( please send e-mail to both addresses ) authors of accepted abstracts will be informed by february 8th , 1999 . subject to the availability of funding , we will try to cover accomodation expenses for speakers from outside of japan for the time of the workshop , but not travel expenses . kanda university is located in makuhari , between narita tokyo international airport and downtown tokyo . for more information about the coe and kanda university , please consult the web at : coe http : / / coe-sun . kuis . ac . jp / kanda http : / / www . kuis . ac . jp /
