Subject: book on labelled deduction

second call for papers labelled deduction ( an edited volume intended for the applied logic series of kluwer academic publishers ) http : / / www . informatik . uni-freiburg . de / ~ ld98 / - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - background in september 1998 , the university of freiburg ( germany ) hosted ld ' 98 the first international workshop on labelled deduction . the participants of ld ' 98 reported on research , related to or based on labelled deduction , in many areas of computer science , artificial intelligence , mathematical logic , cognitive science , philosophy , and computational linguistics . more information on ld ' 98 is available at the url of the workshop http : / / www . informatik . uni-freiburg . de / ~ ld98 / ws / motivated by the success of the workshop , the members of the program committee of ld ' 98 will edit a volume collecting original papers on this topic and titled labelled deduction ( an edited volume intended for the applied logic series of kluwer academic publishers ) topics of interest the title reflects the planned contents of this book : we welcome original contributions on all theoretical and practical aspects of labelled deduction , including but not limited to : * logical modeling based on labelled deduction * formal metatheory for , or based on , labelled deduction * hybrid reasoners and combinations of logics based on labelling * automated reasoning , implementation , and system support * annotated logic programming * applications submissions * authors are invited to submit full papers of at most 18 pages ( formatted as described below ) to be received by january 31st , 1999 . notification of acceptance or rejection of the papers will be sent by april 30th , 1999 , and final versions of accepted papers will be due by june 15th , 1999 . * submitted papers must be original and not submitted for publication elsewhere . * the primary means of submission is electronic , in postscript format . papers should be e-mailed to ld98 @ informatik . uni-freiburg . de . if electronic submission is not possible , then 5 hard copies should be sent to the postal address given below . regardless of the submission method , a letter or e-mail message accompanying the paper must contain the title , authors , and contact information ( e-mail and postal addresses ) . * authors are strongly encouraged to use latex2e and the article document class with a4paper and 11pt as options . ( basic dimensions for a4paper - 11pt format are approximately : text height 300mm , text width 210mm , 11pt text with a 13 . 5pt leading ( baseline skip ) . ) * submitted papers must be written in english . reception of submissions will be confirmed by e-mail after we have succeeded in printing the paper . important dates submission deadline : january 31st , 1999 notification of acceptance : april 30th , 1999 deadline for final papers : june 15th , 1999 program committee david basin , institut fr informatik , albert - ludwigs - universitt freiburg , germany marcello d ' agostino , universit di ferrara , italy dov gabbay , king 's college , london , uk sen matthews , max - planck - institut fr informatik , saarbrcken , germany luca vigan , institut fr informatik , albert - ludwigs - universitt freiburg , germany addresses * the labelled deduction ( ld ' 98 ) home page ( http : / / www . informatik . uni-freiburg . de / ~ ld98 / ) * email : ld98 @ informatik . uni-freiburg . de * by post : labelled deduction c / o luca vigan institut fr informatik albert - ludwigs - universitt freiburg universittsgelnde flugplatz d-79110 freiburg germany phone : + 49 ( 761 ) 203-8243 fax : + 49 ( 761 ) 203-8242
