Subject: chicago linguistic society

announcing the 35th regional meeting of the chicago linguistic society april 22-24 , 1999 university of chicago main session : we invite original , unpublished work on any topic of general linguistic interest . invited speakers : beth levin ( northwestern university ) paul smolensky ( johns hopkins university ) panels : we invite original , unpublished work which addresses one of the panel topics below . language , identity , and the other thursday , april 22 language serves as a means to unite as well as to exclude groups or individuals . this panel will explore the linguistic mechanisms by which this is accomplished in different speech communities . invited speakers : robert greenberg ( university of north carolina , chapel hill ) michael silverstein ( university of chicago ) in conjunction with the university of chicago workshop on theory and data in speech research : chiphon 99 new syntheses : multi - disciplinary approaches to basic units of speech friday , april 23 this panel seeks to synthesize findings from linguistics and other fields which investigate linguistic behavior , to determine whether these can be used as evidence for a unified theory of basic units of speech processing . invited speakers : john ohala ( university of california , berkeley ) joseph perkell ( massachusetts institute of technology ) theory and linguistic diversity saturday , april 24 approximately five thousand languages are spoken throughout the world today . this panel seeks to explore the ways in which linguistic theories attempt to account for such variety . invited speakers : mark baker ( rutgers university ) joan bresnan ( stanford university ) r . m . w . dixon ( australian national university ) please submit ten copies of a one-page 500 word anonymous abstract for a twenty minute paper ( optionally one additional page for data and / or references may be appended ) , along with a 3 by 5 card with : 1 your name 2 affiliation 3 address , phone number , and e-mail address 4 title of the paper 5 an indication for which panel or which particular subdivision of the main session ( eg : phonetics , phonology , syntax , semantics , historical linguistics , etc . ) the paper is intended . the abstract should be as specific as possible and it should clearly indicate the data covered , outline the arguments presented , and include any broader implications of the work . an individual may present at most one single and one co-authored paper . authors must submit a camera-ready copy of the paper at the time of the conference in order to be considered for publication . only a selection of papers presented at cls 35 will be published . this years deadline for receipt of abstracts is february 1 , 1999 . send abstracts to : chicago linguistic society 1010 east 59th st . chicago , il 60637 773 . 702 . 8529 information on e-mail submission and additional guidelines for abstracts may be obtained by visiting our website at http : / / humanities . uchicago . edu / humanities / cls / cls . html , by writing to the above address , or by e-mailing us at cls @ diderot . uchicago . edu .
