Subject: sociolinguistics symposium 2000

haa27974 status : r university of the west of england , bristol ( uwe , bristol ) centre for european studies ( ces ) , faculty of languages and european studies ( les ) & school of sociology , faculty of economics and social sciences ( ess ) sociolinguistics symposium 2000 the interface between linguistics and social theory 27-29 april 2000 call for papers the sociolinguistics symposium 2000 is the thirteenth meeting of the sociolinguistics symposium which meets once every two years . this conference will focus primarily on the interface between linguistics and social theory , and it is hoped the meeting will contribute to further cooperation between the two disciplines . the conference welcomes papers from a range of different subject areas such as : language variation and change , language and gender , language and the media , discourse analysis , languages in contact , creole linguistics , intercultural communication , language and migration , social stratification of language , language development and other related topics . keynote speakers professor jack chambers ( toronto ) : leaders and laggers in the diffusion of changes professor david corson ( toronto ) critical realism : an emancipatory social philosophy for sociolinguistics professor pieter muysken ( leiden ) : radical modularity and the possibility of sociolinguistics professor shana poplack ( ottawa ) : the social context of linguistic variation ( working title ) professor ruth wodak ( vienna ) : does sociolinguistics need social theory ? new perspectives in critical discourse analysis provisional titles of colloquia language , nationalism and minority rights multilingualism and migration intercultural communication language contact along the language frontier discourse suggestions for other colloquia are welcome ( see deadline for applications on the back of this page ) . committee professor michael scriven ( dean , les , uwe , bristol ) professor alison assiter ( dean , ess , uwe , bristol ) mr felix bihlmeier ( associate dean ( resources ) , les , uwe , bristol ) dr susan price ( associate dean ( academic affairs ) of les , uwe , bristol ) dr carmen arnaiz ( uwe , bristol ) mrs kate beeching ( uwe , bristol ) mr john bird ( uwe , bristol ) professor jim coleman ( university of portsmouth ) professor nikolas coupland ( university of cardiff ) dr aidan coveney ( university of exeter ) dr helmut daller ( uwe , bristol ) professor roy harris ( university of oxford ) dr stephen may ( university of bristol ) dr tom osborne ( university of bristol ) dr mark sebba ( university of lancaster ) dr sali tagliamonte ( university of york ) dr jeanine treffers - daller ( uwe , bristol ) mr jem thomas ( uwe , bristol ) dr glyn williams ( university of wales at bangor ) deadlines the deadline for proposals of colloquia is : 1 june 1999 . the deadline for submission of abstracts is : 1 september 1999 . abstracts are welcomed for oral presentation ( 20 mins + 10 mins discussion ) or poster presentation . please send 4 hard copies , one of which contains your name and address , as well as an electronic version ( rich text format ) of the abstract to the address given below . for more information more information about the conference programme , the venue and the general organisation of the event can be found either on our website : http : / / www . uwe . ac . uk / facults / les / research / sociling2000 . html or at our addresses / numbers below : jessa karki / jeanine treffers - daller centre for european studies ( ces ) faculty of languages and european studies university of the west of england , bristol frenchay campus , coldharbour lane bristol , bs16 1qy , uk e - mail : jessa . karki @ uwe . ac . uk ( administrative matters ) jeanine . treffers - daller @ uwe . ac . uk ( academic affairs ) tel : + + 44 117 976 3842 , ext 2724 , fax : + + 44 117 976 2626
