Subject: chinese linguistics ; complete words of luo changpei

the complete works of luo changpei will be published in 1999 by shandong education publishing house in china . a commemorative meeting will be held in beijing on the hundredth anniversary of the author 's birth , august 9 , 1999 . on the same occasion the luo changpei linguistics scholarship foundation will be announced . luo changpei was one of the founders of modern linguistics in china . he stood on the shoulders of the giants in this field and explored diverse branches of the science . he was in the first generation of linguistic scientists from the institute of history and philology of the academia sinica . he established the institute of linguistics of the chinese academy of social sciences , assumed its direction and was nominated academician . his contribution is historic . the anthology includes the author 's published and unpublished works in ten volumes , of which the first six are books and the last four monographs . each volume has an editorial acknowledgement and postnote . annexed to vol . x are a biographical outline and two indexes , one by alphabetic order , the other by stroke . please direct inquiries to wl @ pub . casc . cn . net ( luo shengyi ) . vol . i . 1 . the phonological system of the amoy dialect 2 . the phonological system of the speech of linchuan vol . ii . 1 . the speech of north - west china under the tang dynasty and the five kingdoms 2 . a study of rime evolution under the wei , jin and north - south dynasties ( co-authored with zhou zumo ) vol . iii . 1 . an introduction to chinese phonology 2 . history of the romanization of chinese characters 3 . rimes in beijing folk songs ( annex , collection of popular rimes ) vol . iv . minority languages 1 . a preliminary study of the qiu language of gongshan 2 . a preliminary study of the nu language of gongshan 3 . a preliminary study of the baiyi language of lianshan ( co-authored with xing qinglan , rechecked by zhou yaowen and fang fenghe ) 4 . chinese under the yuan dynasty and the bagsba characters ( revised edition , co-authored with cai meibiao ) vol . v . 1 . an outline of general phonetics ( revised edition , co-authored with wang jun ) 2 . language and culture 3 . the chinese and the chinese language vol . vi . unpublished course handouts 1 . evolution of the chinese phonological system ( table and legend ) 2 . comments on publications abroad about chinese phonology 3 . about ancient chinese phonology vol . vii . 1 . monographs on philology and linguistics ( i ) 2 . monographs on philology and linguistics ( ii ) vol . viii . 1 . columns on chinese phonology 2 . influences from abroad on the study of chinese phonology vol . ix . 1 . monographs about chinese dialects and minority languages ( 40 essays ) 2 . linguistic miscellany ( 38 essays ) vol . x . 1 . chinese linguistics essays in foreign languages 2 . on the tough route of sichuan 3 . between canshan mountain and lake erhai 4 . biography 5 . indexes : alphabetic and stroke editorial committee : advisors : lu " shuxiang * , ma xueliang , wu zongji , zhang qingchang * , gao huanian * ( deceased ) chief editor : wang jun deputy editors : zhou dingyi , sun hongkai , gao gengsheng , yuchi zhiping editors ( by stroke order ) : wang jun , wang hongxin , sun hongkai , shao rongfen , yang naisi , li zhaoxiang , zhou dingyi , luo shengyi , luo shenyi , gao gengsheng , yuchi zhiping , xie rongdai , cai meibiao editor in charge : sui xiancun secretary : luo shengyi ( person to contact ) zhong guan cun bldg 78 , apt 206 beijing , 100080 tel . & fax : 86-62 55 84 19 e - mail : wl @ pub . casc . cn . net
