Subject: final call : esslli98 - workshop corpus annotation

esslli-98 workshop on recent advances in corpus annotation august 17 - 21 , 1998 a workshop held as part of the 10th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli-98 ) august 17 - 28 , 1998 saarbrueken , germany * * final call for papers * * organizers : hans uszkoreit , brigitte krenn , wojciech skut , thorsten brants ( department of computational linguistics , university of the saarland ) web site : http : / / www . dcs . warwick . ac . uk / ~ esslli98 / workshops . html background : the use of statistical methods and particularly training from annotated corpora has become an important topic in various fields in computational linguistics . currently available corpus resources are rather small except for english , and largely restricted to the annotation of parts-of - speech and phrase structure . the workshop is intended to bring together researchers who create reusable annotation schemes , annotation tools , and corpora for different languages and kinds of language , representing information such as morphology , syntax , semantics , dialoge structure , etc . papers should address some of the following topics : - reusable and extendable annotation schemes , - efficient annotation of large corpora , - current work on annotation tools , - interaction of human annotators and automatic annotation tools , - representation of competence and performance information within annotated corpora , - other related topics . presentations of annotation schemes and corpora for various languages are encouraged , as well as demonstrations of implemented annotation tools . workshop format : the workshop will consist of five sessions of 90 minutes each held over five days . there will be either two or three presentations at each session with time for questions and discussion . submissions : all researchers in the field , but especially ph . d . students and young researchers , are encouraged to submit extended abstracts ( 6 pages , 12pt ) preferably by e-mail and in postscript . on an extra page , the following information should be included : 1 . name , affiliation , address , e-mail of the submitter ( s ) . 2 . an indication which of the themes is / are addressed . 3 . an abstract of the paper . 4 . if applicable , requirements for a demo . e - mail submissions shall be sent to krenn @ coli . uni-sb . de . hard copies shall be sent to : brigitte krenn universitaet des saarlandes computerlinguistik postfach 1150 66041 saarbruecken germany the deadline for submissions is february 15 , 1998 . authors will be notified of acceptance by april 15 , 1998 . final copy for inclusion in the informal workshop proceedings is due may 15 , 1998 . registration : workshop contributors will be required to register for esslli-98 , but they will be elligible for a reduced registration fee . important dates : feb 15 , 98 : deadline for submissions apr 15 , 98 : notification of acceptance may 15 , 98 : deadline for final copy aug 24 , 98 : start of workshop further information : to obtain further information about esslli-98 please visit the esslli-98 home page at http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / esslli
