Subject: call : csdl - 4

call for abstracts the fourth conference on conceptual structure , discourse , and language ( csdl - 4 ) october 10-12 , 1998 emory university atlanta , georgia invited speakers for theme sessions on : - > functional and cognitive approaches to the study of first language acquisition nancy budwig ( clark university ) michael tomasello ( max planck inst . for evolutionary anthropology ) third speaker - - tba - > grammatical constructions : form and function joan bybee ( university of new mexico ) talmy givon ( university of oregon ) brian macwhinney ( carnegie mellon university ) a special poster session on - > discourse and computer - mediated communication will be held during the conference sponsored by the georgia institute of technology ( georgia tech ) . a pre-conference symposium will be held on friday evening , october 9 , on - > primate communication . the following invited speakers will discuss the research they are conducting at the yerkes regional primate research center of emory university : harold gouzoules dario maestripieri susan savage - rumbaugh . what to submit we invite papers which consider functional principles of linguistic organization , and the interaction between language and cognition . priority will be given to papers which examine both the cognitive and discourse functions of linguistic phenomena . specific areas of inquiry at the conference will include , but not be limited to : lexical and grammatical meaning conversational practice form and function discourse analysis conceptual structure iconicity in language metaphor as a cognitive phenomenon language change and grammaticalization language acquisition social interaction and grammar sentence processing we also invite abstracts for the special poster session on discourse and computer - mediated communication ( cmc ) . specific areas of inquiry at the session will include , but not be limited to : cmc as a force in linguistic and cognitive change specialized lexical and typographic registers of cmc emergent communication norms in cmc discourse analysis of cmc discourse styles in the virtual classroom and virtual communities continuities between cmc and other discourse genres gender differences in cmc cmc and nonlinear thinking abstracts for 20 - minutes papers or the special-topic poster session may be a maximum of one page . at the top of the abstract ( if by e-mail ) or on a separate page ( if on paper ) , please include title of paper author name ( s ) and affiliation ( s ) topic area ( from the list above or whatever seems appropriate ) e-mail address paper mailing address submission deadline : abstracts must be received by march 16 , 1998 . where to submit : we strongly prefer e-mail submissions . abstracts for 20 - minute papers for the main session should be e-mailed in ascii form to : < csdl - 4 @ learnlink . emory . edu > . abstracts for the poster session on discourse and cmc should be e-mailed in ascii form to : < wendy @ cc . gatech . edu > . please use " abstract " as your subject header . if you are submitting more than one abstract , please e-mail each separately . if you prefer to use regular mail , send four copies of your abstract for the main conference for the poster session on session to : discourse and cmc to : csdl - 4 abstracts poster session abstracts program in linguistics c / o wendy newstetter callaway center 312s edutech institute emory university georgia inst . of technology atlanta , ga 30322 , usa atlanta , ga 30332-0280 , usa inquiries : for more information , visit the conference web site forthcoming in february at < http : / / www . emory . edu / college / linguistics / csdl / > . e-mail inquiries : csdl - 4 @ learnlink . emory . edu chair of the organizing committee : alan cienki e-mail : lanac @ emory . edu phone : 404-727 - 2689
