Subject: dialog ' 98 - - computational linguistics

dialogue ' 98 international workshop on computational linguistics and its applications kazan ( russia ) , may 31 - june 4 , 1998 dear colleagues , we are glad to inform you about dialogue ' 98 , an international annual workshop on computational linguistics and its applications , which will take place this year in may 31 - june 4 , near kazan ( tatarstan , russian federation ) . dialogue ' 98 should become fourth international workshop in row of dialogue ' 95 kazan dialogue ' 96 puschino dialogue ' 97 yasnaya polyana reviving the tradition of the interdisciplinary dialogue seminars which were regular national events in the ussr during 70s - 80s . the workshop is an annual meeting place for a dialogue : a ) between researchers from different fields that are related to computational linguistics ( linguists , computer and cognitive scientists , psychologists , researchers in the artificial intelligence ) ; b ) between researchers from the former ussr and from the international community . topics of interest include ( but are not limited to ) : * theoretical and cognitive linguistics * syntax , semantics , pragmatics and their interaction * systems for natural language processing * dialogue and speech act * problems of natioanl localization of natural language processing * natural language front-ends * natural language understanding and model of object domain * voice interaction with computer * knowledge representation and processing the number of participants is expected about 100 . every prospective attendee is required to submit a short research summary including relevant recent publications , regular and e-mail address , fax and phone numbers . participants who wish to present their work are additionally required to submit a poster ( 3 - 4 double-spaced pages , 6 - 8 kb ) or a full paper ( not exceeding 12 double - spaced pages , 24 kb ) . please send submissions preferably via e-mail ( in plain ascii or uuencoded winword files ) to the aldress of the program committee before march 1 , 1998 . submissions in russian and english are equally accepted . submissions in russian should be accompanied with a short summary in english ( approximately 100-200 words ) . we plan to organize selected english - to - russian and russian - to - english translation of talks . addresses for all correspondence : e-mail : dialog98 @ bull . nmd . msu . ru snail mail : dialogue ' 98 russian instititue for artificial intelligence p . o . box 111 , moscow , 103001 , russia . important dates : deadline for submission : march 1 , 1998 notification of acceptance : march 20 , 1998 final paper due : march 30 , 1998 in the field of computational linguistics in russia the dialogue workshops became regular annual events which attract leading researchers from the former ussr as well as other countries . we hope that dialogue ' 98 will continue this tradition . program committee : alexander s . narin ' yani , program chair ( russian institute of artificial intelligence ) christian boitet ( grenoble university ) rais . g . bukharajev ( kazan state university ) ilya n . gorelov ( saratov state university ) alexander e . kibrik ( moscow state university ) igor a . mel ' chuk ( montreal university ) sergei nirenburg ( new - mexico state university ) haldur oim ( tartu university ) dmitrij a . pospelov ( computer center of russian academy of sciences ) secretariate : natalya i . laufer , ( russian institute of artificial intelligence ) olga . v . fedorova , ( moscow state university ) organizing committee : rais . g . bukharajev ( kazan state university ) - the chairman djavdet sulejmanov ( kazan state university ) - the vice - chairman il 'd us hajbullin ( tatarstan academy of science ) nail ' zamov ( kazan state university ) information for contacts in kazan : 420008 tatarstan , kazan kremlevskaja str . , 35 kazan state university , vmk faculty , djavdet sulejmanov email : djavdet . suleymanov @ ksu . ru tel . / fax : ( 843 - 2 ) 38-75 - 91 if you have questions about the workshop , please send e-mail letters to the above-mentioned addresses . please , share this information letter with people you think it may concern .
