Subject: 6th international symposium on social communication - - cuba

sixth international symposium on social communication santiago de cuba january 25-28 , 1999 the applied linguistics center of ministry of science , technology and environment in santiago de cuba , sponsored by the linguists association of cuba , the santiago de cuba higher institute for the medical sciences and the university of oriente , is pleased to announce the sixth international symposium on social communication to be held in santiago de cuba , january 25-28 , 1999 . this international event will focus on social communication processes from the points of view of applied linguistics , computational linguistics , cybernetics , medicine and the mass media . papers and posters will be discussed at workshops within the framework of the following disciplines : 1 . applied linguistics spanish and foreign languages teaching , translations , scientific terminology , sociolinguistics , psycholinguistics , phonetics . papers related to ethnology , folklore and other aspects of social communication will also be admitted under this field . international workshop : lexicological and lexicographic researchs . 2 . computational linguistics this symposium will discuss work on software design related to : lexicological , lexicographic and grammatical research . the compilation of automated monolingual , bilingual and phraseological dictionaries . other uses of computational linguistics . international workshop : automatic tagging of textual corpora . 3 . voice processing artificial intelligence applied to voice analysis , synthesis and recognition . signal processing . artificial intelligence . different type of hardware and software and their use in the devising and developing of voice-processing equipment . voice - processing equipment . their use in informatics , acoustic analysis , and as aid for the hearing and sight impaired . voice - processing research related to " cry analysis " . 4 . medical specialties related to pathological processes which use speech and voice analysis . presentations on research results showing the effects of the use of words and communication for the treatment of various illnesses . interdisciplinary treatment of logophoniatric patients with vocal tract disorders . results of investigations related to diagnoses of central nervous system diseases through the cry analysis method . international workshop : prespeech development and language acquisition . 5 . mass media language in the mass media . other aspects of interest santiago de cuba , located at some 900 kms from havana , is cuba 's second largest city due to its economic , cultural and social importance . santiago is also the capital of the province with the same name . surrounded by the green mountains of the sierra maestra range and the caribbean sea , santiago is unique in its geography and beautiful landscape . its surroundings make the city one of the most important touristic attractions on the entire island . the organizing committee , in coordination with the city 's tourist agencies will offer visiting delegates a host of options allowing participants to enjoy the city 's beauty and charm . important reminders june 30 , 1998 : submission of summaries september 1th , 1998 : deadline for paper and reports january 25-28 1999 : sixth international symposium all mail or enquiries should be addressed to : dr . eloina miyares bermudez secretaria ejecutiva comite organizador apartado postal 4067 . vista alegre santiago de cuba 4 , cuba , 90400 telefonos : ( 53-226 ) 42760 , ( 53-226 ) 41081 fax : ( 53-226 ) 41579 e - mail : leonel @ lingapli . ciges . inf . cu home page : http : / / wwwseti . cs . utwente . nl / parlevink / cuba . also at : http : / / www . univ-tlse 2 . fr / gril / cuba . html official languages : spanish and english . inscription fee : $ 130 . 00 usd companions $ 70 . 00 usd
