Subject: a workshop on text , speech and dialog ( tsd ' 98 )

first announcement and call for papers a workshop on text , speech and dialog ( tsd ' 98 ) brno , czech republic , 23-26 september 1998 the workshop is organized by the faculty of informatics , masaryk university , brno , and the faculty of applied sciences , university of west bohemia , pilsen , under the auspices of the dean of the faculty of informatics of masaryk university . please visit the workshop 's homepage : http : / / www . fi . muni . cz / tsd98 / venue brno , czech republic topics tsd ' 98 will be concerned with topics in the field of natural language processing , in particular : - corpora , texts and transcription - speech analysis , recognition and synthesis - their intertwining within nl dialog systems . topics of the workshop will include ( but are not limited to ) : - text corpora and tagging - transcription problems in spoken corpora - sense disambiguation - links between text and speech oriented systems - parsing issues , especially parsing problems in spoken texts - multilingual issues , especially multilingual dialog systems - information retrieval and text / topic summarization - speech modeling - speech segmentation - speech recognition - text - to-speech synthesis - dialog systems - development of dialog strategies - assistive technologies based on speech and dialog - applied systems and software program committee baudoin genevieve ( france ) ferencz attila ( romania ) hanks patrick ( great britain , chair ) hermansky hynek ( usa ) kopecek ivan ( czech republic ) matousek vaclav ( czech republic ) mueller johannes ( germany ) noeth elmar ( germany ) pala karel ( czech republic ) pavesic nikola ( slovenia ) schukat - talamazzini e . guenter ( germany ) skrelin pavel ( russia ) organizing committee bartek ludek batusek robert komarkova dana ( secretary ) e-mail : dkomar @ fi . muni . cz kopecek ivan ( chair ) e-mail : kopecek @ fi . muni . cz matousek vaclav pala karel smrz pavel staudek jan zackova eva ( principal contact ) e-mail : glum @ fi . muni . cz zizka jan submission of papers abstracts of no more than 500 words [ plain ascii text only , please ] should be submitted to the following e-mail address on or before may 15 , 1998 : glum @ fi . muni . cz submissions should include , in addition to the abstract itself , the name of the author ( s ) , affiliation , address , telephone number , fax number , and e-mail address . electronic submissions will be acknowledged by e-mail , so please contact us if no acknowledgement is received . acceptance of submissions will likewise be notified by e-mail . accepted papers will be published in the proceedings of tsd ' 98 . authors of abstracts that are accepted will be requested to send their papers in postscript form ( in llncs format ) to the above by e-mail before august 17th . latex word processor is preferred but not required . format instructions ( and llncs latex format ) will be sent to authors together with the notification of acceptance . requests for participation will be processed on a " first come first served " basis . important dates friday , may 15 , 1998 . . . . . submissions of abstracts due tuesday , june 30 , 1998 . . . . . notification of acceptance sent to the authors monday , august 17 , 1998 . . . . . final papers ( camera ready ) due wednesday , september 23 , 1998 . . . . . . workshop date fees and costs registration fee : 80 . - usd ( includes proceedings , refreshments , social events and trip ) accommodation and food : double room ( shared with other participant ) : 130 . - usd single room : 190 . - usd the full cost of the workshop will therefore be either 210 , - usd or 270 , - usd , depending on whether accommodation is shared . further details will be announced later . official language the official language of the event will be english , but papers on issues relating to text and speech processing in languages other than english are strongly encouraged . address all correspondence regarding the workshop should be addressed to : dana komarkova faculty of informatics masaryk university botanicka 68a 60200 brno czech republic tel . : + 420 5 41 512 359 fax : e-mail : dkomar @ fi . muni . cz outline of the programme all sessions of the workshop will be plenary ( no parallel sessions ) . the format will consist of paper presentations ( generally 20 minutes ) followed by discussion ( 10 minutes ) . the workshop will also include social events , an excursion to the faculty of informatics , masaryk university brno , and a trip in the vicinity of brno ( the moravian karst , including the beautiful macocha chasm ) . location hotel myslivna , where the workshop will take place , is a comfortable hotel in beautiful woods on a hill near a natural reservation area very close to brno . the surrounding is very quiet and suitable for walks and hiking ( jogging ) routes . brno is the capital of moravia , which is in the south-east part of the czech republic . it is the second-largest town in the czech republic ( with a population of about half a million ) . it had been a royal city since 1347 . there are six universities in brno . historical and artistic places of interest include : - - brno castle ( now called spilberk ) - - veveri castle - - the old and new city halls - - the augustine monastery , with st thomas ' church and crypt of moravian margraves - - the church of st james - - the " bishops ' church " of st peter & st paul - - the famous villa tugendhadt , designed by mies van der rohe - - many other important examples of czech architecture between the wars ( 1918-38 ) . in the immediate surroundings of brno are the moravian karst . with macocha chasm and punkva caves ; the site of the " battle of the three emperors " ( napoleon , alexander of russia , and franz of austria ) , commonly known as the battle of austerlitz ; the chateau of slavkov ( austerlitz ) ; pernstejn castle ; and many other attractions . how to reach brno brno can be reached easily by direct trains from prague , vienna , bratislava , and budapest , or by plane to vienna and then by coach or train ( 130 km ) . another possibility is to go by plane to prague and then travel about 200 km by coach or train . further travel details will be given in future announcements . ivan kopecek kopecek @ fi . muni . cz http : / / www . fi . muni . cz / ~ kopecek /
