Subject: esslli ' 98 - - probabilistic logic and randomised computation

esslli-98 workshop on probabilistic logic and randomised computation august 17 - 21 , 1998 a workshop held as part of the 10th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli-98 ) august 17 - 28 , 1998 , saarbrueken , germany * * second call for papers * * organisers : alessandra di pierro and herbert wiklicky ( london ) web site : http : / / www . cs . city . ac . uk / ~ adp / esslli98 . html background : probabilistic concepts recently gained widespread interest in logic and computer science , for example in the investigation of randomised algorithms and probabilistic proof systems . whereas probability and randomisation have always played an important role in complexity theory ( from average case analysis to probabilistic complexity classes ) the investigation of these notions in semantics was much more limited and only in the last years renewed interest seems to develop . this workshop aims at bringing together researchers from areas like philosophy , logics , semantics and the theory of algorithms whose research is related to aspects of probability , stochastic processes , randomised algorithms etc . , in order to foster links and facilitate cross-fertilisation of ideas among them . the workshop topics include : o philosophical foundations of probability o probabilistic logics o probabilistic proof systems o probabilistic proof checking o probabilistic knowledge representation o probabilistic games o randomised automata o randomised algorithms o semantics of probabilistic languages o probabilistic non-determinism o probabilistic reasoning o fuzzy and belief systems o inexact matching o constraints and probability o markov chain monte carlo methods o practical applications o randomised optimisation ( e . g . simulated annealing , genetic algorithms ) o ( stochastic ) approximation algorithms ( for np problems ) workshop format : the workshop will be held as part of esslli ' 98 . there will be five sessions of 90 minutes each , one on each day of the first week of the school ( august 17-22 , 1998 ) . the workshop will consist in the presentation of submitted papers and discussion sessions . notes containing the papers accepted for presentation will be made available in electronic form . opportunities for publishing revised versions of the papers will be explored . the workshop will be open to attendance by all school registrants . submission : all researchers in the area , but especially ph . d . students and young researchers , are encourage to submit a paper . papers should be submitted in the form of an extended abstract of no more than 4000 words ( 8-10 pages ) in length , and must include the e-mail address of all authors and a 200-300 word abstract . deadline is february 15 , 1998 . to submit a paper , please send a postscript file to < adp @ cs . city . ac . uk > or < herbert @ cs . city . ac . uk > or send three ( 3 ) hard copies of your paper to one of the organisers ( below ) . alessandra di pierro adp @ cs . city . ac . uk http : / / www . cs . city . ac . uk / ~ adp herbert wiklicky herbert @ cs . city . ac . uk http : / / www . cs . city . ac . uk / ~ herbert department of computer science school of informatics city university northampton square london ec1v 0hb united kingdom electronic submission is strongly encouraged . registration : workshop contributors will be required to register for esslli-98 , but they will be elligible for a reduced registration fee . important dates : feb 15 , 98 : deadline for submissions apr 15 , 98 : notification of acceptance may 15 , 98 : deadline for final copy aug 17 , 98 : start of workshop further information : to obtain further information about esslli-98 please visit the esslli-98 home page at http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / esslli - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
