Subject: conference on linguistics & literature

the 10th annual conference on linguistics and literature will be held at the radisson hotel and conference center in denton , texas on january 30 and 31 , 1998 . the conference is sponsored by the graduate students in english association at the university of north texas ( unt ) with generous support from the unt department of english and from the unt dean of arts and sciences . plenary speakers : donald freeman ( university of southern california ) " whither - - and whether - - english ? " gilles fauconnier ( university of california , san diego ) and mark turner ( university of maryland ) " gradients of creativity " highlight speakers : margaret freeman ( los angeles valley college ) " cognitive poetics : an adequate theory of literature ? " james mccawley ( university of chicago ) " conversational scorekeeping and the interpretation of narrative and expository prose " phyllis perrin wilcox ( university of new mexico ) " cultural variability in the interpretation of metaphors and metonyms in asl poetry " sherman wilcox ( university of new mexico ) " radical iconicity and signed language universals " plus 80 + other papers and presentations in all of the following areas : - literary analysis - linguistic analysis - linguistics and literature - cognitive metaphor - writing pedagogy - creative readings : poetry - creative readings : prose a complete listing of papers and presentations is available at our web site : http : / / www . unt . edu / languaging / * * * registration : following standard practice , the conference offers a reduced rate for early registration . registration forms must be returned to denton via snail-mail no later than january 20 , 1998 in order to receive the reduced rate . our snail-mail address : conference on linguistics and literature department of english university of north texas denton , tx 76203 those wishing to register may use the form provided at our web site at http : / / www . unt . edu / languaging / or may email linglit @ unt . edu for a text copy of our registration form . please direct your conference questions to linglit @ unt . edu
