Subject: reminder of coling-acl ' 98 workshop deadline ( cvir ' 98 )

call for papers coling-acl 1998 workshop content visualization and intermedia representations ( cvir ' 98 ) august 15 , 1998 university of montreal montreal , quebec , canada workshop description : in the last few years , multimedia systems have become available which integrate text , graphics , sound ( speech and non-speech audio ) , as well as animation . there are many different communities working on such systems ( e . g . , hypermedia , human-machine interaction , information retrieval , scientific visualization , content extraction , dialog tracking ) , each with distinct concerns and goals , and often the communities are not aware of each other 's research and methods . this workshop aims to bring together these communities to examine the questions of the visual presentation of diverse content through multiple media . the major goal is to explore common intermedia representation languages which are expressive enough to cover diverse modalities yet suitably appropriate for the individual media . with increasing amounts of data , information , and knowledge available to the user , the effective use of visualization is increasingly important in applications . examples include : # visualization of data in scientific literature , including support for interactive information retrieval ; # business and finance data visualization ( data profiling ) ; # automated or assisted map , graph , diagram , or image construction from text or data ; event , process , and knowledge editing and visualization tools ; # and knowledge navigation over databases , texts , and search results . the specific issues addressed by the workshop include but are not limited to : 1 . definition of content : different disciplines and applications have distinct perspectives on what content is , e . g . , of text , video , graphics , collections of interactions or correspondences . 2 . knowledge representation : i . e . , what it is , how to represent it , reason about it , and present it . 3 . taxonomies of content representations , tasks , and visualization artifacts . 4 . representations for content and how these relate to and / or facilitate visualization tasks . 5 . selection and organization of content : deciding what to present and how to organize the presentation of selected content and why ( i . e . , effect ) . 6 . deciding how to coordinate the presentation of content through several media : 7 . the relationship of cognitive task to visualization content and style ( e . g . , visualization structure , properties , form , coherency , interpretability , and accuracy of displays ) . 8 . deciding how to accept and integrate input from several media . 9 . medium - specific encoding of content . 10 . presentation and interaction techniques of generated results . 11 . tailoring visualizations to specific user and usergroup characteristics , knowledge , and interests . 12 . content visualization evaluation metrics and methods . we encourage submissions of demonstrations and / or videos of working visualizations pertaining to the above topics . the organizers will produce a workshop report and , providing there is sufficient interest and adequate results reported , will consider a special edited journal issue and / or state of the art collection . authors are encouraged to submit their workshop papers simultaneously for public discussion to the area intelligence user interfaces of the electronic transactions on artificial intelligence ( etai ) . the etai is a new kind of electronic journal using open and posteriori reviewing . formally , the rules work as follows . in the etai , you first have the article discussed for three months , then you have a chance to revise it based on the feedback , and then you decide whether to submit it for refereeing in the etai or in some other journal . for more information , see : http : / / www . ida . liu . se / ext / etai / . sponsors : sigmedia ( acl 's special interest group on multimedia language processing ) acl / coling program committee : elisabeth andre , dfki saarbruecken branimir boguraev , ibm watson research steve feiner , columbia university michael johnston , oregon graduate institute mark maybury , mitre corporation james pustejovsky , brandeis university steve roth , carnegie mellon university wolfgang wahlster , dfki saarbruecken kent wittenburg , gte laboratories program chairs : james pustejovsky , brandeis university mark t . maybury , mitre requirements for submission : papers are invited that address any of the topics listed above . maximum length is 8 pages including figures and references . please use us or a4 letter format and set margins so that the text lies within a rectangle of 6 . 5 x 9 inches ( 16 . 5 x 23 cm ) . use classical fonts such as times roman or computer modern , 11 to 12 points for text , 14 to 16 points for headings and title . latex users are encouraged to use the acl style file for latex . ms - word users should use the acl style file for ms - word . submissions can be made either as hardcopies or electronically in ascii , postscript , html , or ms - word format . they should be sent to : james pustejovsky cvir ' 98 computer science department 258 volen brandeis university waltham , ma 02254-9110 voice : 1-781 - 736-2709 fax : 1-781 - 736-2741 email : jamesp @ cs . brandeis . edu more detailed information on the workshop can be found at : http : / / www . cs . brandeis . edu / ~ jamesp / cvir / timetable * deadline for electronic submissions : march 11 , 1998 * deadline for hardcopy submissions : march 13 ( arrival date ) * notification of acceptance : may 1 , 1998 * final manuscripts due : june 12 , 1998 organizer information : mark t . maybury , director advanced information systems center the mitre corporation ( ms k308 ) 202 burlington road bedford , ma 01730 tel : 1-78 - 271-7230 fax : 1-781 - 271-2780 maybury @ mitre . org james pustejovsky , associate professor computer science department and volen center for complex systems brandeis university waltham , ma 02254-9110 voice : 1-781 - 736-2709 fax : 1-781 - 736-2741 jamesp @ cs . brandeis . edu james pustejovsky associate professor computer science department and volen center for complex systems brandeis university waltham , ma 02254-9110 usa voice : 1-781 - 736-2709 fax : 1-781 - 736-2741 jamesp @ cs . brandeis . edu http : / / www . cs . brandeis . edu / ~ jamesp http : / / www . cs . brandeis . edu / ~ rllc
