Subject: ecai-98 # 7 : final call for young researcher papers

august 23-28 1998 brighton uk final call for young researcher papers http : / / www . cogs . susx . ac . uk / ecai98 / youngrescall . html * * * student registration rate before june 1st will be 90 pounds sterling * * * the ecai-98 programme committee is pleased to announce a special programme of short papers for young researchers . important dates - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 6 mar 1998 deadline for abstracts 11 mar 1998 deadline for papers 15 apr 1998 notification of acceptance 15 may 1998 camera - ready copies of papers 26-28 aug 1998 student programme at ecai-98 the aim is to encourage younger ai researchers to attend ecai-98 and to present their on-going work , in the form of short ( 2 page ) papers , which will appear in the conference proceedings . a short paper may either report on the innovative points of work in progress , or on a particular result of special interest . the call is open to researchers who satisfy at least one of the following criteria on 11 march 1998 : - they are under 28 years old - they are currently studying for a phd or other degree qualification in ai ( or a related topic ) - they received a phd in ai ( or a related topic ) within the past two years . submissions are invited on original and previously unpublished research in all aspects of ai , including , but not limited to : abduction , temporal , causal reasoning , and diagnosis ; automated reasoning ; application and enabling technologies ; belief revision and nonmonotonic reasoning ; case - based reasoning ; cognitive modelling and philosophical foundations ; computational linguistics ; constraint - based reasoning and constraint programming ; distributed ai and multiagent systems ; fuzzy logic ; knowledge acquisition ; knowledge representation ; logic programming , and theorem proving ; machine learning , knowledge discovery and data mining ; natural language and intelligent user interfaces ; neural networks in ai ; planning , scheduling , and reasoning about actions ; probabilistic networks ; qualitative preferences and decision in ai ; qualitative and spatial reasoning ; reasoning under uncertainty ; robotics , vision , and signal understanding ; search and meta - heuristics for ai ; verification , validation and testing of knowledge - based systems . submissions should be two pages long using the format described on the ecai-98 style guide web page : http : / / www . cogs . susx . ac . uk / ecai98 / style . html a latex style file is available on the website ( or on request . to ecai98 @ cogs . susx . ac . uk ) . accepted papers will be required to conform more strictly to the publishers ' formatting requirements , which will be broadly in line with the present formatting guidelines . submission procedure submission is a two stage process , similar to the process for long papers . an electronic abstract should be sent to ecai98 @ irit . fr by 6 march 1998 . this summary should include the title , author , contact address and abstract for the paper , plus keywords drawn from the above list ( plus other keywords if appropriate ) . a web-based summary submission form is available to make this easier . this summary information should also be included with the paper itself , on a separate sheet of paper . submission of the paper is in hard copy form only , electronic submissions will not be accepted . four copies of the paper ( each including the summary sheet ) , should be sent by post to the ecai-98 programme chair , henri prade , at the address below . the title page should include a statement indicating which of the above eligibility criteria the author satisfies and that the paper has not been submitted elsewhere . the deadline for receipt of papers is 11 march 1998 . papers received after this date will not be reviewed . address for submission - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - henri prade , ecai-98 programme chair irit universite paul sabatier 118 route de narbonne 31062 toulouse cedex 4 france email : henri . prade @ irit . fr tel : + 33 ( 0 ) 561 55 65 79 fax : + 33 ( 0 ) 561 55 62 39 multiple submissions policy ecai-98 will not accept any paper which at the time of submission is under review for , or has already been published or accepted for publication in a journal or another conference . authors are also expected not to submit their papers elsewhere during the review period . these restrictions apply only to journals and conferences and not to workshops or similar specialised meetings with limited audiences . the title page should include a statement that the paper is not under review or accepted for publication in another conference or journal . however , if a young researcher has already submitted a regular paper to ecai-98 , a new submission on the same topic in the form of a short paper is permitted provided that the author declares it on submission . if the regular paper is accepted , the short paper will be considered to have been withdrawn . however such a double submission is not encouraged . the review process the short papers will be reviewed under the control of the ecai-98 program committee under the chairmanship of the ecai-98 programme chair . the ecai-98 programme chair has final authority over the review process and all decisions relating to acceptance of papers . accepted papers will be allocated 15 minutes for oral presentation and 2 pages in the official ecai-98 proceedings . note : as is usual at ecai conferences , students will be able to register for the conference at a significantly reduced and subsidised rate . the registration rate for students who register before june 1st will be 90 pounds sterling . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ecai-98 secretariat tel : + 44 ( 0 ) 1273 678448 centre for advanced software applications fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 1273 671320 university of sussex email : ecai98 @ cogs . susx . ac . uk brighton , bn1 9qh , uk url : http : / / www . cogs . susx . ac . uk / ecai98 ecai-98 is organised by the european coordinating committee for artificial intelligence ( eccai ) and hosted by the universities of brighton and sussex on behalf of aisb . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
