Subject: new trends in variationist linguistics : from attitudes to grammar

the linguistic association of finland is organizing a summer course / workshop on new trends in variationist linguistics : from attitudes to grammar to be held at the university of oulu , the per \ 228meri research station by the unique nature reserves on the hailuoto island august 14-16 , 1998 the workshop will bring together researchers and phd students working in the field of language variation , ranging from morpho-syntactic variation to dialectology , sociolinguistic variation , code-switching , language attitudes and beliefs , and variation in interactional practices . the aim of the workshop is to explore new issues in the study of variation , such as the use of new methodologies and types of data . participants are strongly encouraged to give a paper on any aspect of language variation , as this is an excellent opportunity to get feedback from others working in this area and from some of the leading scholars in variationist studies . invited speakers : peter auer ( university of hamburg ) juhani klemola ( university of leeds ) dennis preston ( michigan state university ) activities : * lectures by invited speakers * presentations by other participants ( 20 min + 10 min for discussion ) * recommended readings before the workshop ( the reading list will be distri - buted to registered participants ) registration fees : * general : fim 200 * members of the association : fim 100 * undergraduate and ma students free * payment upon registration * send by giro account no 800013-1424850 to the linguistic association of finland ( sky ) / variation , or payment at the beginning of the workshop in cash other costs : * accommodation and food fim 170 x 3 . accommodation primarily in 4 - 8 person rooms . * bus from oulu to hailuoto on the morning of 14 august and back on the afternoon of 16 august ( fare between fim 50-100 ) the deadline for submission of abstracts ( one page ; preferably in english ) and registration is april 30 , 1998 . please register and submit an abstract by e-mail to the following address : variation @ ling . helsinki . fi if you send this information by snail mail , please provide an e-mail address as a contact address ( if possible ) . participants will be notified about acceptance by may 31 . for further information , please contact one of the following organizers : marja leinonen marja - leena sorjonen filologia ii department of finnish university of tampere p . o . box 33 p . o . box 67 fin-00014 university of helsinki 33101 tampere finland finland e-mail : sorjonen @ helsinki . fi e-mail : f2male @ uta . fi elise k \ 228rkk \ 228inen matti miestamo department of english department of linguistics university of oulu p . o . box 4 p . o . box 111 fin-00014 university of helsinki fin-90571 oulu finland finland e-mail : matmies @ ling . helsinki . fi e-mail : elise . karkkainen @ oulu . fi information can also be found at : http : / / www . ling . helsinki . fi / sky / variation . html
