Subject: terminology & knowledge engineering

first call for papers tke ' 99 communicating into 2000 5th international congress on terminology and knowledge engineering innsbruck ( austria ) 24-28 august 1999 organized by association for terminology and knowledge transfer ( gtw ) international information centre for terminology ( infoterm ) international network for terminology ( termnet ) objectives of the congress on behalf of the association for terminology and knowledge transfer - gesellschaft fur terminologie und wissenstransfer ( gtw ) we are pleased to announce the 5th international congress on terminology and knowledge engineering tke ' 99 which will be held on the campus of the university of innsbruck , austria , between 24-28 august , 1999 . in continuation of the first four tke congresses in trier ( 1987 and 1990 ) , cologne ( 1993 ) and vienna ( 1996 ) , tke ' 99 will address world-wide interests in the interdisciplinary methods of terminology science , information science and computer science . it should furthermore help achieve the " universal availability of information and knowledge " via computerized methods and tools , open new horizons for more efficient applications based upon this integration of methodologies and elicit the interest and participation of experts working in the fields that are gradually drawing nearer from the point of theory and methodology such as - terminology research - knowledge engineering - language engineering - computational philosophy - classification theory - information & documentation - computer - assisted instruction / learning - computerized terminography - specialized translation - technical writing we welcome submission of papers describing substantial , original and unpublished research contributions in these fields . tke ' 99 will be divided into 8 sections concentrating on the following areas of research : 1 . knowledge theory and terminology 2 . knowledge data management 3 . multimedia and terminology 4 . language engineering and terminology 5 . documentation and terminology 6 . world wide web and terminology 7 . multilingualism and terminology 8 . specialist communication and terminology authors will be asked to identify the sections to which their submission corresponds . contributions that do not fall into any of the above areas but are nevertheless relevant to the field are also welcome . the working language of the congress is english . this refers to the written contributions as well as to their oral presentation . authors are asked to provide an abstract ( approx . 2 pages ) of their papers to the programme organizer by 15 october 1998 , at the latest . the title page is to show the title of the paper , the author 's name , address , phone number and fax number , and the section to which he / she is planning to contribute . the abstracts should be sent preferably by e-mail ( peter . sandrini @ uibk . ac . at ) ( a submission form is available on the tke home page : http : / / gtw-org . uibk . ac . at ) or by mail ( 4 copies ) or fax . the abstract then undergoes a reviewing process carried out by the programming committee and the section organizers . by the end of november 1998 the authors will be informed about the acceptance of their papers . then they will have time until february 1999 to submit a full paper in a4 camera-ready format and on floppy disk ( approx . 10 pages for the session papers and 15 pages for the keynotes ) , which will be processed for publication in the proceedings and printed prior to the congress . the proceedings will be available for the participants at the beginning of the congress . workshops / tutorials proposals for workshops and / or tutorials within the framework of the congress are welcomed and should be sent as soon as possible to the programme organizer . please send your submissions to peter sandrini universit \ 228t innsbruck , fischnalerstr . 4 , a-6020 innsbruck tel + 43 512 507 4261 fax + 43 512 507 2966 email peter . sandrini @ uibk . ac . at deadlines abstracts 15 october 1998 reviewing process november 1998 acceptance of the papers december 1998 full papers 15 february 1998deadline for cheaper registration 30 june 1999 congress 24 - 26 august 1999 workshops / tutorials 27 - 28 august 1999 programming committee : gerhard budin , infoterm , vienna ( austria ) m . teresa cabr \ 233 castellv \ 237 , universitat pompeu fabra , barcelona ( spain ) karl - heinz freigang , universitat saarbrucken ( germany ) christian galinski , infoterm , vienna ( austria ) john d . graham , mannesmann - demag , duisburg ( germany ) felix mayer , europaische akademie bozen ( italy ) alan k . melby , brigham young university , provo ( usa ) erhard oeser , universitat wien , vienna ( austria ) heribert picht , handelshajskolen i kobenhavn , copenhagen ( denmark ) m . cecilia plested alvarez , universidad de antioquia ( colombia ) peter sandrini , universitat innsbruch ( austria ) klaus - dirk schmitz , fachhochschule koln , cologne ( germany ) sergey d . shelov , committee for scientific terminology in fundamental research ( russia ) helmi sonneveld , eaft ( netherlands ) sue ellen wright , kent - state - university , ohio ( usa ) we look forward to receiving your submissions .
