Subject: rmmla / ads

* * * * * * * * papers solicited for the 1998 rmmla conference * * * * * * * * * conjoint meeting : american dialect society : session chair , simonie hodges georgetown university 2525 farmcrest dr . # 328 herndon , va 20171 usa this session showcases papers on various aspects of american dialects . examples of previous paper topics include : dialects of utah , the use of formal and informal pronouns " you " in spanish speaking cities , jamaican english in historical plays , and sweet carbonated beverage isoglosses in the u . s . we hope that you will propose a paper for the 1998 rmmla ( rocky mountain modern language association ) conference in salt lake city . please address your proposal to the chair of the appropriate session . proposals based on a 300 - word abstract are due to the session chair no later than 15 february 1998 . these proposals must be sent on paper and on 3 . 5 " disk ( preferably ibm - compatible format ) . if you would like the disk returned to you , please enclose a stamped , self - addressed envelope . you will be notified of the chair 's decision by 15 march 1998 . complete versions of accepted papers are due to the chair by 15 august ( paper and disk copy ) . visit the rmmla website at rmmla . wsu . edu / rmmla / callforpapers / call973 . asp for more details on the other topics at the conference . - guidelines for papers and presenters at the rmmla conference - - we would appreciate your following a few rmmla rules regarding papers presented at our conference . rmmla is an organization for its members . you must be a member in good standing to present a paper . your membership must be current by 1 april 1998 to have your name appear in the program . you may not read papers in more than one session . it is courteous to notify the chair if you submit to more than one session . if you have two papers accepted , please decide which you will give , and notify both chairs , as well as the rmmla secretariat . if we discover the duplication and are not able to reach you , we will have to choose for you . members who propose papers are expected to attend the convention to read at the scheduled time . no more than two members of the same institution may appear on any panel . no one 's name may appear on the program more than twice ( i . e . as a chair and a presenter ; appearance as a secretary is not considered ) . please notify the chair and the rmmla secretariat immediately if you find you are unable to present . it is the policy of the rmmla not to have papers read in absentia . ( nb : rmmla due dates represent dates for receipt . please allow adequate time when mailing overseas or to distant addresses . ) proposals for papers for the 1998 convention are due to the chairs no later than 15 february 1998 , because chairs must have the program copy for their sessions in the hands of the executive director by 1 march 1998 . this timeline is critical for setting and finalizing the program . thank you in advance for your cooperation .
