Subject: lrec workshop

call for participation a workshop on minimizing the effort for language resource acquisition granada , spain , 26 may , 1998 in conjunction with the first international conference on language resources and evaluation granada , spain , 28-30 , may 1998 an applied nlp system must produce adequate results and must be made deployable within reasonable time . gathering and acquiring language resources to build an application system is very time-consuming , and it is imperative to find ways of speeding up acquisition of high quality , useful static knowledge sources such as a variety of grammars , lexicons , corpora , etc . viability of avoiding masive resource acquisition , if possible , must also be carefully considered . resource acquisition should include methods , based both on sound theoretical principles and practical experience , of deciding , among other things , on the amount of knowledge one * really * needs for a given application . increasing the size of knowledge sources or their number and variety does not necessarily lead to a commensurate improvement of output quality in an application , though a correlation between the two certainly exists , but it definitely needs to much increased costs . no matter how large the acquired resources are and how many of them have been acquired , there will always remain a residue of language processing problems which can be tackled only by foregoing the requirement of full automation and involving expensive semi-automatic or even manual acquisition . it becomes imperative , therefore , to assess when the static knowledge source acquisition is no longer profitable . thus , in a system for interactive authoring and automatic generation of patent claim texts , the lexical knowledge base can be restricted to a lexicon of domain-related verbs marked for subcategorization ( as the nominals are provided interactively by the author ) . the proposed workshop will be devoted to any technological and administrative facet of economy of acquisition effort . the technological issues to be discussed at the conference include , but are not limited to : - minimization of effort in acquiring monolingual and multilingual text corpora ; - minimization of effort in acquiring computational lexicons , including phonological , morphological , syntactic , semantic and other ( including application-specific ) information ; - minimization of effort in acquisition of resources for the support of corpus-based language engineering methods ; - minimization of effort in acquiring grammatical coverage of languages and sublanguages ; - methods of determining levels of reusability of existing language resources ; - balancing the needs of the application and the grain size of language description ; - minimization of effort through balancing automatic and interactive methods of knowledge acquisition ; - evaluation of potential utility of resources to applications ; we particularly encourage reports about actual practical large-scale resource acquisition efforts in which economy of effort has been a conscious choice . organizing committee : svetlana sheremetyeva , nmsu crl , usa ( chair ) eduard hovy , usc isi , usa bernardo magnini , irst , italy sergei nirenburg , nmsu crl , usa victor raskin , purdue university , usa frederique segonde , xerox research centre europe , france leo wanner , university of stuttgart , germany submission of papers papers should not exceed 4000 words or 10 pages . presentations will be selected on the basis of a review of papers and project reports . submission mode each submission should include a title page containing the title , author ( s ) , affiliation ( s ) , submitting author 's mailing address , telephone number , fax number and e-mail address . the authors may submit three hard copies or submit electronically in postscript form to : svetlana sheremetyeva computing research laboratory new mexico state university , usa box30001 / dept . 3crl / las cruces new mexico 88003-8001 lana @ crl . nmsu . edu receipt of submissions will be acknowledged . important dates thursday , february 19 , 1998 submissions due monday , march , 16 1998 acceptances and rejections friday , april 10 1998 final papers due tuesday , may 26 , 1998 workshop date registration for the workshop will be : 10 , 000 pesetas for those not attending lrec 5 , 000 pesetas for those attending lrec these fees will include a coffee break and the proceedings of the workshop . participation in the workshop will be limited by the venue . requests for participation will be processed on the first come first served basis .
