Subject: computers and the humanities

computers and the humanities for over thirty years , computers and the humanities ( chum ) has been the premier international journal for publications on language , text , and humanities-related research . starting with the publication of volume 31 , chum is taking on a new look , with a new cover and format , together with a new editorial staff representing areas across the variety of disciplines covered by the journal . in addition to continuing to publish top-quality articles covering all kinds of textual analysis , corpus studies , and language and literary analysis , we are actively seeking to extend our scope to cover the full range of materials which are available for research in humanities disciplines , including images , sound , speech data , etc . we invite the submission of high-quality articles describing research concerning the creation , representation , and maintenance of text resources and other media , as well as descriptions of methodologies and results of research using such materials , including statistical and symbolic methods , strategies for information storage and retrieval , etc . in keeping with chum 's long tradition of fostering inter-disiplinary work , we also encourage submission of articles involving multi-lingual and / or multi-modal applications and research . we extend a special invitation for articles which survey the current state-of - the-art in any relevant area . such articles should provide an overview of past and recent work , an assessment of the current achievements and directions for future research , and a full bibliography which may serve as a reference for those interested in the field . for a recent example , see " current approaches to punctuation in computational linguistics " , b . say and v . akman , chum 30 : 6 ( 1996 ) . in addition to publishing full-length research articles , chum also publishes a section on reports and discussion , which includes shorter articles reporting on projects , intermediate results , or discussing relevant issues . contributions to this section are also solicited . for information about computers and the humanities and article submission procedures , consult http : / / www . wkap . nl / computers and the humanities - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - editorial staff editors - in-chief : nancy ide , vassar college , usa daniel greenstein , king 's college , uk resource review editor : elli mylonas , brown university , usa board of commissioning editors : sheila anderson , university of essex , uk stephen arnold , glasgow university , uk r . h . baayen , max planck institute for psycholinguistics , the netherlands david t . barnard , university of regina , canada christian delcourt , universite de liege , belgium richard giordano , university of manchester , uk claus huitfeldt , university of bergen , norway judith l . klavans , columbia university , usa john lavagnino , brown university , usa kirk martinez , birkbeck college , uk mark olsen , university of chicago , usa philip resnik , university of maryland , usa julian richards , york university , uk laurent romary , centre de recherche en informatique de nancy , france dan tufis , romanian academy of sciences , romania syun tutiya , chiba university , japan john unsworth , university of virginia , usa ; ellen voorhees , national institute for standards and technology , usa
