Subject: here is how to send your own bulk email

this website will teach you how to bulk email your product , service , or business opportunity successfully . . . and how to target email your product or service in your local / specific area fact : while there are many people who try to bulk email , there are very few who do it successfully ! why ? : because many people buy bulk email software along with millions of addresses , and are still not supplied with the necessary information they must have to successfully bulk email . here is the rest of the information that the bulk email programs and list sellers never give you that you must have . for the beginner : this site teaches you as if you were in the 1st grade , with complete step-by - step instructions , software & addresses to start effective bulk emailing immediately , at speeds of up to 250 , 000 emails per hour ( and faster ) . do n't pay someone else to send your bulk email . . . you never know if it really is going out ! do it yourself ! we include : how to target email your product or service in your local / specific area plus : * complete instructions on how to send bulk email ! * information on smtp servers * " bulk friendly " isps * how to make sure your email is being delivered * how to read header information * how to put " click here " links in your bulk email * how to send bulk email in color * information on the internet and why bulk emailing * much , much more ! also : * free 8 million email addresses available for download right now ! * free email list management software ( sorts , counts , filters , combines , etc . at lightning speed ! ) * stealth massmailer software when registering you will save 50 % ! ! ! ! ! * free software demo that automatically keeps you signed on aol indefinitely ! * search engine submission software demo * and much more ! ! ! ! * note : while the software that is obtainable at this site is valuable , it is secondary to the valuable information you will obtain regarding how to send bulk email ! the cost for membership is only $ 99 . 00 ! ! ! ! limited time offer ! call now for access ! ! 352-315 - 6069 we also provide professional bulk emailing services . call for details .
