Subject: referencing example numbers in wp

since the question has been raised about how to reference example numbers in wordperfect for dos , here 's my two-cents ' worth about wp5 . 1 and wp6 for dos . in 5 . 1 , although one could use paragraph numbers , as was suggested , this precludes using them to number sections of a paper . a better approach is to use the numbering facilities for " graphics boxes . " like paragraph numbers , graphics boxes can be referenced by the cross-reference feature in wp . what you have to do is set equation box options so that the caption is to the left of the box ( the default is to the right ) . for phonological rules , which can be nicely formatted using the equation editor , you then create an equation box with a caption consisting of " ( [ box number ] ) " and go into the equation editor to write the rule . for sample sentences , etc . , the box itself is empty , but with a caption as before , and set to allow text to overlap it . you can then exit the create graphics box screen and proceed to type the examples . the numbers automatically update as new boxes are added . cross - referencing is done by assigning name to any example you want to reference ( as a cross-reference target ) and then putting in a cross-reference reference code with the target 's name . you have to generate occasionally to update the reference numbers ; they initially appear as ? . in wp6 ( which is superior for linguistics because of its support for phonetic symbols ) it 's even easier . wp6 has a counters feature ( in the character format dialog box ) . you define a counter ( i call mine example ) . whenever you want to insert an example , you type ( in the main document screen ) the open parenthesis , go into the counters dialog box , and push f8 ( or click on the increment and display button ) . this inserts two codes : one to increment the number ( this is not done automatically for user-defined counters ) and one to display it . cross - referencing is done as before . a couple of additional wp tips : - the styles feature is very useful for dealing with in-text stylesheets for journals . for any feature where journals have different styles ( scare quotes , sentence glosses and translations , in-text reference punctuation , etc . ) you assign a style . styles can be any combination of characters and codes . for each journal , you create a different style library . then , if you want to change formatting from one to another , you simply read in a different style library . - the above is too simple for bibliography style sheets , where the order of elements differs in addition to punctuation and font attribute . if you are comfortable with programming , you can write merge programs ( called primary merge files in wp5 . 1 and merge form files in wp6 ) for the different stylesheets and have a bibliography file which is formatted as a secondary merge file ( wp5 . 1 ) / merge data file ( wp6 ) , with fields for things like author 's first and last names , year , title , etc . ( include a field for type of reference ( book , article , dissertation , etc . ) since the format of the title may vary . ) this is not recommended for computerphobes , however . - lining up foreign language examples with word-for - word glosses in proportional fonts can be done using tabs , and resetting the tab stops for each example . this is easier from wp6 . 0b onwards ( if you have a mouse ) because of the ruler feature : you display the ruler and drag the tab stops , and as you drag them a dotted line extends down from the tab stop through the text so you can see exactly where you are . in previous versions , you have to go into the tab set menu and play with the tab settings by trial and error . it is even possible to put asterisks inside the space of the tab between the example number and the example . instead of tabbing , use the tab align ( wp5 . 1 ) or decimal align ( wp6 ) feature ( ctrl f6 ) . before pressing ctrl - f6 , set the " decimal character " to the first letter of the example ( on the other format menu in 5 . 1 and the character format menu in 6 ) . to prevent the spell-checker from stopping on words in foreign examples ( or phonetic representations , or logical formulae ) , in 5 . 1 you can use the language feature to insert a made-up language code . the spell-checker will complain that it can't find the dictionary for the language , and you tell it to ignore the language and continue checking what it can . in wp6 a block can be marked [ speller / grammatik off ] ( on the other format menu ) to prevent it from being spell - or grammar-checked . - - yehuda n . falk department of english the hebrew university of jerusalem " live long and prosper " - vulcan greeting
