Subject: dependency grammar : corrections , reactions , reformatting

apparently i made a few mistakes in the posting about my manuscript on dependency grammar . this is curious , because i apparently got everything right on the earlier posting on the same topic to the dg and hpsg lists . at least two people have informed me that they successfully ftp-ed everything , but at least two others have had problems . the address should be : julius . ling . ohio-state . edu the suffixes . ps . gz on the file-names ( not the address ) indicate that they are compressed , so you need to uncompress them using the command ' gunzip ' . the slashes in the directory address should be ' / ' and not ' \ ' . presumably because of some sort of software error , i cannot read things in my inbox . but i put three of the reactions to my previous posting there before i had grown accustomed to this problem , so i cannot answer these directly , but will now try to do so through the linguist list . to the respondent from finland : you wanted a numerical address . it is : 128 . 146 . 172 . 200 to the respondent from taiwan ( or was it hongkong ? ) . you noted a problem with chapter 7 . the general problem has now been corrected , but there may still be a problem with one or two of the examples . if so , i can send an ascii file , as you suggested , or a paper copy of these examples , if you send me a regular mail address , but in either case you have to write to me again . i am now used to reading my mail and replying if necessary , or at least writing down the essential information , before downloading . nevertheless , i hope the compuserve people solve the problem soon . to the " computer illiterate / dyslexic " ( your own term ) : surely you can find someone there who is able to help you with the ftp procedure . the university you are at must have more than its share of experts in this area . but i can also send you an ascii version of chapter 1 via email , if you write to me again . for the sake of making my files more compatible with the software linguists most often use , andreas kathol has advised me to reformat my manuscript in latex . unfortunately , he does n't know where to get a latex software packet for use with pcs ( what i use ) . can anyone help by giving me a site to ftp from ? i am in the process of creating a latex version of the files . dan maxwell 100101 , 2276 @ compuserve . com
