Subject: conference announcement

content - length : 7567 2nd international conference on communication in the workplace local diversity , global connections : communication , culture and business the national languages and literacy institute of australia 's centre for workplace communication and culture at the university of technology , sydney and james cook university of north queensland , together with the national centre for english language teaching and research at macquarie university plan to present the second international conference on communication in the workplace at the wesley centre , sydney on november 8-11 , 1995 . the focus of the conference is local diversity , global connections : communication , culture and business . the conference will be divided into three interconnected themes , one theme on each of the three days . participants will be able to explore areas of special interest within and across each theme . also featuring are case studies including adi marine , infolex pty ltd , optus , selleys , uncle toby 's company ltd . below is an outline of the themes . day 1 globalisation and productive diversity globalisation : what are the new frontiers ? crossing borders and removing boundaries in the current global environment . developing cross-cultural communication skills for global corporate citizens . international business cultures : how do different national styles influence organisations ? negotiating new ways of doing business and managing human resources . total quality management and benchmarking : what do we mean by quality ? or how can the notions of quality and standards allow for difference ? balancing different interpretations of quality with the need to conform to international / australian standards . putting diversity to work : what are the benefits ? tapping into the diverse skills of employees . recognising the depths and breadth of employees ' language skills , experiences , cultural styles and ways of thinking . the language of exporting : how do we market the new global growth industries ? exporting services ( education , languages , tourism , information , arts , etc . ) to the asian pacific region and beyond . day 2 learning organisations - negotiating workplace cultures corporate cultures : how do you link personal values with corporate missions ? creating corporate cultures which allow and value differences . working in teams : which teams work and under what circumstances ? recognising different types of teams ; valuing different skills and strategies . national competencies and multiskilling : how do you recognise , compare and complement different skills and experiences ? linking education , work and community . learning and demonstrating competence in new and flexible ways . creating learning environments : under what conditions does learning thrive ? responding to community and individual needs in flexible ways . enterprise bargaining : how do you cater for differences ? learning to develop new workplace relationships . day 3 communicating and managing change communicating corporate information : what are the implications for employee participation ? developing efficient and effective communication systems . working with formal and informal modes of communication . informal and interpersonal communication : how does the way we speak and write influence working relationships and relationships with clients ? relating effectively to people . working together : how can we gain access to the language and cultural skills of a multicultural workforce ? recognising and utilising the language skills of the workforce . ( languages other than english , specialist languages , community communication networks . ) the language of marketing : how do we meet the needs of a diverse clientele ? speaking the customer 's language , niche marketing , networking and building customer relations . interactive multi-media and new information technologies : what are the implications for the way we work , learn and communicate ? managing new communications media as forms of language and cultural interaction . alternative formats , maximising participation one of the objectives of the second international conference on communication and culture in the workplace is to encourage greater participation than usually occurs at conferences . to make this possible , the conference has a number of new presentation formats , as well as the more conventional formats . - plenary presentations ( 30 mins ) where invited key experts introduce the conference themes and state-of - the-art approaches . - plenary multilogues ( 90 mins ) where an expert panel debates an issue and then opens the discussion to the audience . - small group multilogues ( 45 mins ) where you introduce a controversial proposition related to the conference themes / panel debates and open it up for further discussion in a small group . - reflections on practice ( 45 mins ) where managers , trainers , workers , trainees , teachers , administrators , community educators ' walk through ' their experiences , their practices , their community involvements , their learning-on - the-job . - engagements with practice ( 90 mins ) where presenters actively engage their audiences in activities or experiences derived from their work and interests : management processes , training activities , planning processes , client relations or marketing , evaluation . - workshops - in - partnership ( 90 mins ) where people present in partnership . partners might include : trainers , researchers , managers , administrators , business people , members of the community . workshops require active engagement of the audience in a learning experience . - paper presentations - in - partnership ( 45 mins ) a shorter version of the workshop - in - partnership , but with more of a 's how and tell ' approach , allowing 15 mins for audience questioning . - workshops ( 90 mins ) where you lead a group through a series of experiences / activities which illustrate an idea or a practice . - papers ( 45 mins ) where you present from a prepared paper to a group about your experience or your research , leaving about 15 minutes for questions and discussion . sessions will be taped , and tapes available for sale . written papers , background information on sessions , overhead transparencies etc . will be lodged with the conference secretariat and available for sale in photocopied form . the conference is expected to attract about 500 local and international participants including employers , unions , academics , industry trainers and language teachers . it will provide an opportunity for people to engage in a dialogue about the latest ideas on organisational change , communication and culture . for further information contact the nllia centre for workplace communication and culture , university of technology , sydney . po box 123 , broadway , new south wales , 2007 , australia . tel : + 61 2 330 3926 . email : d . brosnan @ mailbox . uts . edu . au
