Subject: sixth jk conference

content - length : 3595 call for papers the sixth japanese / korean linguistics conference university of hawaii at manoa august 8 - 10 , 1995 deadline for submission of abstracts : april 30 , 1995 on - campus accommodations and board will be provided for presenters . keynote speakers samuel martin ( professor emeritus ) yale university noriko akatsuka university of california , los angeles this conference aims to provide a forum for presenting research in korean and japanese linguistics , thereby facilitating efforts to deepen our understanding of these two languages , which have striking typological similarities . potential topics include , but are not limited to : syntax , semantics , phonology , morphology , pragmatics , historical linguistics , typology , psycholinguistics , sociolinguistics , language acquisition , and discourse . presentations are 20 minutes long and will be followed by a 10 minute question / answer period . abstract should include : 1 . seven ( 7 ) copies of a one-page abstract ( no more than 500 words ) with a title . omit your name and affiliation from the abstract . the one-page ( 500 word ) limit should be strictly observed ; a second page may be used only for data and citing references . 2 . a 3 " by 5 " card with the title of the paper , the name of the author ( s ) , the mailing address of the author , the author 's affiliation , phone number , fax number , and e-mail address . if your address , phone number , or e-mail address will be different for any period prior to the conference , please include that information as well . 3 . a self-addressed , stamped postcard if you wish to be notified when your abstract has been received 4 . only one abstract may be submitted as a single author . the same person may also submit one jointly authored abstract . abstracts should be sent to one of the addresses below by april 30 , 1995 . on the face of the envelope , to the right of the mailing address , please print " discourse / functional " or " formal " , as appropriate . please note that phonology and phonetics are to be included under the category formal . sohn ( formal ) j / k conference dept of east asian langs & lits university of hawaii at manoa 1890 east west road honolulu , hi 96822 iwasaki ( discourse / functional ) j / k conference dept of east asian langs & cultures ucla los angeles , ca 90095-1540 the proceedings of this conference will be published as japanese / korean linguistics vol . 6 by the center for the study of language and information and will be distributed through cambridge university press . please contact john haig for questions and further information . his e-mail address is : haig @ uhunix . uhcc . hawaii . edu
