Subject: job opening at ucla

please ignore the nov . 30 deadline on the previous announcement of this opening . ucla extension continues to accept applications for the job opening below until the position is filled . ucla extension head of the american language center ucla extension seeks an experienced esl professional to direct the american language center ( alc ) . this individual is reponsible for the development and marketing ( domestic and international ) as well as the implementation of a wide range of english as a second language programs . these include a year-round intensive program , part-time evening credit , non-credit and short-term special contract programs . the alc serves about 2300 international students annually and provides , in addition to language instruction , other support including student visas , housing and academic counseling . the successful candidate will be responsible for - the fiscal oversight and management of a budget of approx . 3 million dollars - an administrative staff of 12 to 20 and a teaching staff of 30 to 90 , depending on the time of year - program promotion and marketing - curriculum development the american language center is a unit within the department of humanities , sciences , and social sciences . under the guidance of the department director , the head of alc will plan and implement international continuing education programs in various subject areas combined with language training . he / she will have a leading role in the general international marketing of ucla extension programs and will work with a wide variety of inter - and intra-institutional organizations . required qualifications : - a minimum of a master 's degree in tesl or a closely related field . - a minimum of five years demonstrated successful experience in directing similar programs . - familiarity with foreign travel and cultures ; a foreign language capability preferred . - demonstrated ability in writing , public speaking ; - outstanding academic and administrative leadership skills ; - demonstrated expertise in the management of a multi-million dollar esl program within a large , complex educational institution . salary is commensurate with education and experience . application deadline : the position is open and is to be filled as soon as possible . to request additional position information or to apply , contact : beth marshall director of human resources ucla extension 10995 le conte avenue los angeles , ca 90024
