Subject: release of agfl home page

this message announces the release of the world wide web home page of agfl ( affix grammars over a finite lattice ) . 1 . agfl the agfl formalism , developed at the university of nijmegen , the netherlands , is a formalism in which context free grammars can be described compactly . agfls are two level grammars : a first , context free level is augmented with features for expressing agreement between parts of speech . features are treated as types , and their values may range over the subsets of a given finite set , which explains the acronym affix grammars over a finite lattice . agfl grammars are transformed into a parser by the parser generator opt . the generated parser is a recursive backup parser which computes the values of the affixes on the fly . in this way , fast and efficient parsers can be generated . the formalism is quite simple and limited , and therefore easy to read and write . agfl comes with a grammar workbench gwb , supporting the development of grammars and the checking of their consistency . the agfl formalism does not require any special hardware . the parser generator opt runs on regular sparc - systems and ms-dos machines ( 386 or higher ) and is relatively small . for instance , the ms-dos version requires less than 1 mb harddisk space . 2 . agfl on the web agfl has now been made available to the ( computational ) linguistic community . we think it can be used by ( computational ) linguists who are in need of a simple grammar formalism with a fast parser generator , suitable for experimental purposes . therefore , we have made agfl available via ftp and , recently , via www . the agfl home page contains information about the agfl formalism like the agfl manual , documentation and papers , sample grammars and the latest developments . there is also the possibility to download the software and to register yourself as an agfl user . you are invited to take a look at the home page and to read the information or to download the software . please feel free to make use of agfl and its home page ; we look forward to hear about your experiences . we are currently planning an agfl workshop in june . the latest news about this workshop can also be found on the agfl home page . the url of the agfl home page is : http : / / www . cs . kun . nl / agfl / the address of the ftp - site is : ftp : / / hades . cs . kun . nl / pub / agfl / the organisation of the www page should be self-explanatory . the structure of the ftp - site is as follows : - readme - doc : this directory contains a number of relevant papers - pc386 : this directory contains software for ms-dos machines and an installation guide . - sun4 : this directory contains software for sparc - stations and an installation guide . any questions or remarks with respect to agfl or the agfl home page can be sent to : www-agfl @ cs . kun . nl . on behalf of the agfl team , erik oltmans department of computer science university of nijmegen the netherlands
