Subject: temp position in syntax

the program in linguistics , institute of linguistics and asian and slavic languages and literatures ( ilasll ) , at the university of minnesota invites applications for a full-time temporary ( non-tenure track ) position for a specialist in syntactic theory ( any leading framework ) at the assistant professor level for the 1995-96 academic year . the teaching load will be five courses over three quarters , beginning 16 september 1995 . specific teaching responsibilities include a two-quarter introductory sequence in syntax ; an undergraduate introduction to linguistics ; one graduate seminar in syntax on a topic of choice ; and a second graduate course in an area of choice ( morphological or phonological theory , semantics / pragmatics , or historical linguistics being preferred ) . other responsibilities include maintaining research activities , advising of graduate students , and service on departmental committees . essential qualifications include the ph . d . in linguistics and university-level teaching experience ; applicants with scholarly publications and presentations are preferred . the linguistics program at the twin cities campus of the university of minnesota offers the b . a . , m . a . , and ph . d . degrees in linguistics and maintains strong ties to graduate programs and research centers in cognitive science , communication disorders , and language acquisition . applicants should send a resume , a letter of application describing current research and teaching interests , and three letters of reference to : chair , linguistics search committee program in linguistics , ilasll 192 klaeber court university of minnesota 320 - 16th avenue se minneapolis , mn 55455 all materials must be received by 14 april 1995 . further information can be obtained by letter to the above address or e-mail directed to bdowning @ maroon . tc . umn . edu . the university of minnesota is committed to the policy that all persons shall have equal access to its programs , facilities , and employment without regard to race , color , creed , religion , national origin , sex , age , marital status , disability , public assistance status , veteran status , or sexual orientation .
