Subject: summary : elvis in latin

content - length : 4142 on march 3 , 1995 , i posted a query regarding a cd of elvis presley songs in latin . i am now in receipt of the cd , which the record company , viihdesallap / stop records of jyva " skyla " , finland , was kind enough to send me simply in response to the query i posted on this list . before describing the cd , i would like to cite the following message i received from hannele dufva of the language centre for finnish universities of the university of jyva " skyla " : ) dear professor toops , ) the legend lives forever in latin is recorded by doctor ammondt alias ) associate professor jukka ammondt working at the dept . of literature , ) university of jyva " skyla " , finland . the cd is produced by stop records ) ( sr-103 ) ( tel : + 358-41 - 66771 ; fax : + 358-41 - 773 ) but i called jukka and he ) told me that a contract with k - tel international is being negotiated and ) that the record will probably be available on american market very soon . ) k - tel international finland ( fax . + 358 - 0-790653 ) will also probably ) answer any inquiries . the lyrics were , by the way , translated into latin ) by teivas oksala , the professor of the latin department , also famous for ) his broadcasts of news in latin . i heard that he is also going to attempt ) at trying his talents as sports commentator in latin ( ! ) at an ice hockey ) match . hope you will be able to get the cd ! please do n't hesitate to ) contact me for further information . ) hannele dufva ) language centre for finnish universities ) university of jyva " skyla " ) p . o . box 35 ) 40351 jyva " skyla " ) dufva @ tukki . jyu . fi ) fax : + 358-41 - 603521 having listened to the cd several times now , i am very favorably im - pressed both by the quality of the lyrics and by the quality of the instrumentation . most north american instructors of latin , i believe , will be pleased to learn that the pronunciation used by the vocalist , dr . ( jukka ) ammondt , is virtually identical to the reconstructed " classic " pronunciation taught in north american schools and not that of church latin . / c / and / g / are regularly pronounced as velars and are not palatalized or " softened " to - ch - and - dzh - before front vowels as they are in ( italian ) church latin . practically the only deviation from north american classroom pronunciation is the monoph - thongization of - ae - and - oe - , which ammondt pronounces as long / e : / ( or even / a " / ) , rather than as / ai / and / oi / , resp . v - is regularly pronounced as a bilabial glide / w / , although at times it approaches a bilabial fricative in ammond 's pronounciation ; the same holds true of the glide element in - qu . ammondt occasionally produces a slightly retroflex-sounding / s / , but , in any case , it is never voiced to / z / even intervocalically . i was able to discern only one instance of finnish interference in ammondt 's pronunciation : in one song , one occurrence of the word " dic " is clearly mispronounced / tik / . the cd contains 7 tracks totaling 21 mins . 46 secs . : i . surrender / nunc aeternitatis ii . it 's now or never / nunc hic aut numquam iii . can't help falling in love / non adamare non possum iv . it 's impossible / impossibile v . wooden heart / cor ligneum vi . love me tender / tenere me ama vii . the wings of dream / alae somnii the last track ( vii . , above ) is sung mostly in strongly accented english . it might have been better to keep the lyrics all in latin . i was not provided with information of forms of payment the recording company in jyva " skyla " , finland , is able to accept . i would assume that a mere credit card number ( e . g . , visa , mastercard ) would suffice to purchase one of these cds , the price of which , according to the customs label on the envelope in which mine was mailed , is 90 finnish markka . again , to order cd # sr-103 , write , call , or fax : viihdesallap , ltd . / stop records p . o . box 252 sf-40101 jyva " skyla " finland ph : + 358 41-666 - 771 fx : + 358 41-666 - 773 gary h . toops toops @ twsuvm . uc . twsu . edu associate professor ph : ( 316 ) 689-3180 wichita state university fx : ( 316 ) 689-3293 wichita , kansas 67260-0011 usa
