Subject: humanities computing position at ceth

the center for electronic texts in the humanities ( ceth ) is seeking a humanities computing specialist . please see the position description below . susan hockey director , center for electronic texts in the humanities humanities computing specialist center for electronic texts in the humanities responsibilities : develops and maintains information services for center , including world wide web server , newsletter , and planned series of guides to electronic text resources and applications . provides research support for humanities computing and electronic texts on a national basis . gives presentations and seminars on electronic texts in the humanities . coordinates electronic text center at rutgers university including supervision of student assistants . assists participants at ceth summer seminar . qualifications : strong background in the humanities with phd preferred . experience with computer applications in humanities research required , with at least two years preferred . reading knowledge of some foreign languages preferred . knowledge of tei sgml and experience with internet , pcs ( dos and windows ) , macintosh and unix preferred . good oral and written communication skills required . salary : negotiable , dependent upon experience and qualifications , for a grant funded appointment equivalent to assistant professor rank ; possibility of renewal . status / benefits : faculty status , non-tenure track , calendar year appointment , tiaa / cref pension , life / health insurance , prescription drug , dental and eyeglass plans , tuition remission , one month vacation . center profile : the center for electronic texts in the humanities ( ceth ) is sponsored jointly by rutgers , the state university of new jersey and princeton university . the center 's administrative headquarters are located in the archibald stevens alexander library , the main humanities and social sciences research library of rutgers on the college avenue campus in new brunswick , new jersey . ceth acts as a national focus for the creation , dissemination and use of electronic texts in the humanities with emphasis on scholarly applications and primary source materials . ceth 's activities include an inventory of electronic texts in the humanities , research into methods of providing internet access to collections of sgml - encoded material in the humanities , an international summer seminar on methods and tools for electronic texts in the humanities and general information services for humanities computing . ceth is also developing associated projects in partnership with other institutions and research groups . a consortium of member institutions is planned to start in july 1995 . ceth is supported in part by the national endowment for the humanities and the andrew w . mellon foundation . to apply : resumes received no later than april 10 , 1995 will receive first consideration . submit resume , cover letter , and names of three referees to : sandra troy ( app . 112 ) libraries personnel officer rutgers university libraries 169 college avenue new brunswick , nj 08903 fax # 908-932 - 7637 rutgers , the state university of new jersey upholds a commitment to affirmative action and equal opportunity .
