Subject: tesol institute 1995 in venezuela

tesol institute 1995 universidad de carabobo valencia , venezuela general information latin america hosts its first tesol institute at the university of carabobo in valencia . this city , located in a valley , has a tropical climate ranging from 23 to 32 degrees centigrade , that provides the opportunity to enjoy a permanent summer vacation . the coast , with its exotic beaches is half an hour away , and caracas , the country 's capital , an hour and a half drive . an elaborate highway system links valencia with other states and major cities . it enjoys the services of an international airport , linking it with the rest of the world . the university of carabobo was founded in 1892 . it offers programs through its 8 faculties , leading to both undergraduate and graduate degrees . the university through its english department at the faculty of education , has become a major center for preparing teachers for venezuela . participants will be exposed to rich and varied historical , sport and touristic attractions , such as the battlefield of carabobo , a horse racing track , an aquarium . in addition to the academic agenda , the ' 95 tesol institute will offer some interesting cultural events . typical venezuelan musical and dance groups , featuring the venezuelan harp and " cuatro " will delight everyone . handicrafts and indigenous artcrafts will be displayed . participants may choose to reside in private homes and thus have an opportunity to be part of the daily life of the city and its people . program two three-week sessions from july 17 to august 25 , offering over 30 course topics are scheduled to meet monday through thursday . participants may choose to attend courses for academic credit as offered by the university of carabobo or audit courses on a non credit basis . spanish language and cultural courses with academic credit will be offered to those interested in improving their spanish proficiency and knowledge of latin america . an enrichment program including conferences , workshops and seminars will be offered on fridays . there will be two conferences , as well as a book fair during the event . for more information about courses , registration procedures and tuition , please contact prof . emma miliani c / o ramon viggiani jet cargo international n0 m-510 p . o . box 020010 miami , florida 33102-001 fax : 58-41 - 428382 / 58-41 - 214092 cultural and social activities daily excursions will be offered to many cultural and touristic sights . in addition , during week-ends , day trips will also be planned to surounding beaches and towns . of particular interest will be the week-end trips to canaima , near angel falls , the highest waterfall in the world ; to morrocoy national park , very well known due to its wonderfull beaches ; and to los roques national park , a paradise for those who like snorkelling . tesol membership for more information about tesol membership contact : teachers of english to speakers of other languages 1600 cameron street , suite 300 alexandria , virginia 223134 - 2751 usa tel . ( 703 ) 836-0774 - fax ( 703 ) 836-7864
