Subject: job - - c / lisp , kr , nl : austin , tx

cycorp is seeking enthusiastic , highly-motivated multi-talented people for positions in software development , ontological engineering , and natural language processing . each of these involves working with and extending the cyc technology - - an immense , broad , multi-contextual knowledge base and inference engine which our group has developed over the last eleven years . cyc already contains a useful selection of fundamental human knowledge : facts , rules of thumb , and heuristics for reasoning about the objects and events of modern everyday life . cyc enables a multitude of knowledge-intensive products and services which could revolutionize the way in which people use and interact with computers , and cycorp is dedicated to making this happen . to date , cyc has made possible ground-breaking pilot applications in the areas of heterogeneous database browsing and integration , captioned image retrieval , and natural language processing . we are looking for a few individuals to join us in this challenging enterprise . software development ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - o c applications programming expertise ( unix , macintosh , pc ) o preferably some common lisp programming experience o database theory and application development ( oracle , db2 ) o formal logic ( predicate calculus ) and deductive theorem proving o inference engine design , implementation , and maintenance ontological engineering ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - o facility with formal logic ( predicate calculus ) o preferably some background in ai , esp . knowledge representation o programming ability is a plus , but not required natural language processing ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - o familiarity with nl parsing theory ( including statistical and / or corpus-based parsing methods and other methods ) o experience in designing , building , and extending parsers o facility with predicate calculus , and some knowledge of mathematical methods in linguistics o familiarity with linguistic theory , esp . morphology and syntax ; knowledge of pragmatics and / or discourse theory a plus o ability to think procedurally and concretely ( thus , programming skills would be a plus ) for immediate consideration , send your resume and a cover letter to : doug lenat cycorp , inc . 3500 west balcones center drive austin , texas 78759 fax : 512-338 - 3858 e-mail : doug @ cyc . com cycorp is an equal opportunity employer
