Subject: job posting

university of tuebingen department of linguistics division of computational linguistics research position for a computational linguist we are advertising a research position in the verbmobil project , which is funded by the german ministry for education and research ( bmbf ) . verbmobil is concerned with the development of a portable speech-to - speech translation system for " face-to - face " - communication . the verbmobil - subproject at the department of computational linguistics in tuebingen is concerned with semantic evaluation and transfer for machine translation between german and english , in particular : - the semantic repraesentation , disambiguation and translation of temporal expressions - the semantic repraesentation , disambiguation and translation of complex words - the computational modelling of these empirical domains , and - and the implementation of a working subsystem of verbmobil in collaboration with other verbmobil sites . candidates should have experience in computational linguistics ( particularly in unification-based formalisms ) or computer science . knowledge of german and experience in machine traslation , nl - syntax / semantics ( particularly in head - driven phrase structure grammar , discourse representation theory and in the semantics of tense and aspect ) , logic , or prolog - programming is highly desirable . the successful candidate will be expected to work both on theoretical issues and practical implementation . the project started in 1993 and will last until december 1996 , with the possibility of extension depending on funding . the successful candidate would be expected to take up the position as soon as possible . the position is at the rank of " wissenschaftlicher mitarbeiter " ( salary on the german payscale of bat iia ; minimum of 65 000 dm per year ) . applications should include cv and an outline of research experience and interests . names and addresses of references would be helpful . applications should be sent by mail or email to the address below . applications received by july 15th , 1995 will receive full consideration . prof . dr . erhard w . hinrichs seminar fuer sprachwissenschaft abt . computerlinguistik eberhard - karls universitaet tuebingen kleine wilhelmstr . 113 d-72074 tuebingen germany hinrichs @ sfs . nphil . uni-tuebingen . de
