Subject: japanese / korean linguistics

the sixth annual japanese / korean linguistics conference august 8-10 , 1995 university of hawaii at manoa center for korean studies auditorium cosponsored by the university of hawaii s department of east asian languages and literatures , department of linguistics , and center for korean studies supported by the korea foundation - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - preliminary conference program [ note : moderators / discussants to be announced later . ] send inquiries to professor john haing ( haig @ uhunix . uhcc . hawaii . edu ) tuesday , august 8 8 : 00 a . m . - 8 : 45 a . m . : registration 8 : 45 a . m . - 9 : 00 a . m . : welcoming remarks and announcements session 1 : phonology a 9 : 00-10 : 30 : aspiration in korean phonology mira oh , yeojoo technical college korean place & manner assimilations in optimality theory hyeonkwan cho , university of minnesota constraints in post - obstruent tensification in korean seok - chae rhee , university of illinois at urbana - champaign 10 : 30-10 : 45 a . m . break session 2 : discourse a 10 : 45-12 : 45 : discourse - pragmatic functions of sentence - initial and sentence - final uses of the quotative particle in japanese makoto hayashi , university of colorado at boulder an expanded concept of speakerhood in japanese discourse dina r . yoshimi , university of hawaii at manoa japanese kedo : discourse function and genre toshihide nakayama and kumiko ichihashi - nakayama , university of california at santa barbara how seeing approaches knowing in korean , japanese , and english : an analysis of pota , miru , and see yong yae park and susan strauss university of california at los angeles 12 : 45 - 2 : 00 lunch 2 : 00 - 3 : 00 : guest speaker un - altaic features of the korean verb samuel e . martin , yale university 3 : 00 - 3 : 15 : break session 3 : historical linguistics a 3 : 15 - 5 : 45 : on the origins of japanese sentence particles ka and zo charles j . quinn , jr . , ohio state university the functions of kakari particle namu in heian narratives : an example from the tale of genji j . paul warnick , ohio state university on the origin of accent register in proto - japanese alexander vovin , miami university word - initial low register in proto - japanese moriyo shimabukuro , university of hawaii at manoa another source of m-b variation in japanese blaine erickson , university of hawaii at manoa wednesday , august 9 session 4 : semantics 8 : 30-11 : 00 : analysis of polysemous verbs keedong lee , yonsei university verb lexicalization patterns in korean young - joo kim , hong - ik university on the primacy of progressive over resultative state : the case of japanese - teiru yasuhiro shirai , university of california at los angeles groups as event - oriented entities eun - joo kwak , brown university topic , focus , and strong readings in korean : information partition by phrase structure and morphology hye - won choi , stanford university 11 : 00-11 : 15 : break 11 : 15-12 : 15 : guest speaker the logic of desirability and conditional reasoning noriko akatsuka , university of california at los angeles 12 : 15 - 1 : 30 : lunch session 5 : discourse b 1 : 30 - 3 : 30 : discourse determiners of referential choice in korean acquisition patricia m . clancy , university of california at santa barbara an inquiry into the discourse managing function of a japanese particle wa : an analysis of two distinctive interpretations of the te-wa construction in japanese setsuko arita , kyushu university a cognitive account of the korean morpheme - se : a marker of semantic givenness susan strauss , university of california at los angeles the discourse functions of - myen clause in korean chang - bong lee , university of pennsylvania 3 : 30 - 3 : 45 : break session 6 : syntax a 3 : 45 - 5 : 45 : case - theoretic account of complementizer deletion hirotaka mitomo , yokohama national university tense in the subject raising construction kaoru ohta , university of washington identifying the antecedent of pro in korean and japanese young - suk lee and lizanne kaiser , yale university two types of synthetic compounds and move - affix in korean chung - kon shi , harvard university 6 : 30 - 9 : 00 : dinner reception ( location to be announced ) thursday , august 10 session 7 : historical linguistics b 8 : 30-10 : 00 : kakarimusubi from a comparative perspective john whitman , cornell university evidence for pre - or proto - historic loans into japanese from a related language of the korean peninsula leon a . serafim , university of hawaii at manoa early chinese loanwords in korean and japanese : reexamining an old problem from a modern perspective marc h . miyake , university of hawaii at manoa 10 : 10-10 : 15 : break session 8 : syntax b 10 : 15-12 : 15 : numeral classifiers as adverbs of quantification yukiko sasaki alam , texas a & m university opacity and subjunctive complements in japanese asako uchibori , university of connecticut npis outside of negation scope daeho chung and hong - keun park university of southern california asymmetry in the quantificational force of - ( n ) un in korean chung - hye han , university of pennsylvania 12 : 15 - 1 : 30 : lunch session 9 : syntax c 1 : 30 - 3 : 00 : argument prominence of sino - korean verbal nouns yunsun jung , harvard university argument structure change in benefactive construction in korean seok - hoon you , university of hawaii at manoa light verb constructions and temporal constructions in japanese hiroto hoshi , soas , university of london 3 : 00 - 3 : 15 : break session 10 : phonology b 3 : 15 - 5 : 15 : perception of japanese pitch accent by koreans and its implications for understanding phonological structures y . sukegawa , s . sato , k . maekawa , and h . choi tohoku university and national language research institute umlaut in kyungsang korean : the optimal domains theoretic account seung - hoon shin , indiana university generalized alignment and prosodic categorization in korean hyunsook kang and borim lee hanyang university and wonkwang university nn : rendaku and licensing paradox keiichiro suzuki , university of arizona 5 : 15 : closing remarks
