Subject: 2nd call for papers : dgfs meeting 1998

call for papers as part of the annual meeting of the german linguistic society ( deutsche gesellschaft fuer sprachwissenschaft ) , to be held in halle ( saale ) , germany , march 4 - 6 1998 , there will be a workshop ( arbeitsgruppe ) on the following topic : the role of functional categories in language contact and change in current syntactic theory functional categories play an important role in determining the structure of clauses and noun phrases . while in ` regular ' language change the content of functional categories seems to be relatively stable , in many language contact situations , e . g . creolization , code-switching , functional categories are lost and , subsequently , reconstituted . a major issue hereby is on which grammatical knowledge speakers model the reconstitution of these elements . some of the specific questions to be adressed in this session are : ( i ) which functional categories are necessarily reconstituted , and which are not ? this relates to the issues of universality ( or ug - compatibility ) and markedness of functional categories ; ( ii ) what type of functional categories are reconstituted : those that contribute to meaning ( lf - interpretable ) , or those that only convey grammatical information , or both ? ; ( iii ) which lexical categories are used as a model for reconstitution and , consequently , are reinterpreted as functional categories ? ; ( iv ) from which language ( s ) in the contact situation are the ( lexical or grammatical ) elements drawn used for reconstitution of functional categories ? papers will are relevant to this topic are invited . papers should take 30 minutes , to be followed by 15 minutes of discussion . a one-page abstract should be sent ( preferably by e-mail ) to the organizer ( address below ) by september 1 , 1997 . dr . t . veenstra instituut voor algemene taalwetenschap universiteit van amsterdam spuistraat 210 nl-1012 vt amsterdam tel 00 . 31 . 20 . 525 . 3858 fax 00 . 31 . 20 . 525 . 3021 e-mail t . veenstra @ let . uva . nl
