Subject: telri 3rd european seminar - announcement

telri - trans - european language resources infrastructure third european seminar : " translation equivalence - theory and practice " montecatini , tuscany , italy october 16-18 , 1997 - under the patronage of the european commission - * * first announcement * * ( apologies for duplicates ) " there is no point in denying the concept of translation . the fact is translation is a necessity on economic and general human grounds . moreover , the fact of translation is a main challenge both to linguistics and to philosophy . " j . r . firth " linguistic analysis and translation " the concerted action telri ( trans - european language resources infrastructure ) invites you to participate in the third european seminar translation equivalence - theory and practice , to be held on october 16-18 , 1997 in the famous spa town of montecatini ( between florence and lucca ) in italy . the seminar is organised by telri in conjunction with the tuscan word centre ( twc ) in pescia - vellano . the seminar will assess the achievements of existing translation software and try to propose new approaches that could radically improve their performance . our experience so far suggests that we need a huge increase in linguistic knowledge before we can construct software that can deal successfully with natural language semantics , i . e . software that replicates the human faculty of understanding texts . the seminar will introduce a variety of approaches that will help us to provide the translation knowledge necessary for a new generation of translation tools . it will present the findings of the telri project on the multilingual plato corpus and offer new ideas for the exploitation of parallel texts . it will demonstrate how the bridge dictionaries can be used as a lexicon of translation equivalents . registration fee : dm 400 , - ( until august 31 ) , including participation in the seminar , opening and closing receptions , banquet , and coffee breaks . ( for a limited number of participants from countries with restricted currency convertibility , the registration fee may be negotiated . ) late registration fee ( after august 31 ) : dm 500 , - social event fee for accompanying persons : dm 120 , - registration is possible via fax , e-mail , and surface mail . on - line registration is also possible via the seminar www page given below . for further information on the third european seminar and on the telri concerted action in general , please refer to the following url : http : / / www . ids-mannheim . de / telri / tuscany97 . html or send an e-mail to : telri @ ids-mannheim . de . coordinator dr . wolfgang teubert abt . lexik ( dept . of lexical studies ) institut fuer deutsche sprache postfach 10 16 21 d-68016 mannheim , germany fax / phone : + 49 621 1581-415 e - mail : telri @ ids-mannheim . de
