Subject: program - phonology and morphology conference , marburg

phonology and morphology of the germanic languages marburg , philipps - universitaet , august 27 to 29 1997 conference program please note : times are approximate at this moment ! wednesday , august 27 , prosodic phonology 14 . 00 paul kiparsky stanford , usa prosodic divergence of early germanic 15 . 00 patrik bye troms , norway grammar constrains diachrony ! split prominence and accent shift in central scandinavian 16 . 30 tomas riad stockholm , sweden towards a scandinavian accent typology 17 . 30 birgit alber marburg , germany interaction between morphology and stress assignment in optimality theory thursday , august 28 , from phonology to morphology 9 . 00 janet grijzenhout duesseldorf , germany the role of coronal underspecification in german and dutch phonology and morphology 10 . 00 kristjin rnason reykjavek , iceland shortness in icelandic 11 . 30 albert ortmann duesseldorf , germany consonant epenthesis : phonological and morphological restrictions 12 . 30 richard wiese / chris golston marburg , germany / fresno , usa the structure of the root in german : a corpus-based and optimality-theoretic study 14 . 30 jaap van marle amsterdam , netherlands the questionable status of root suffixes 15 . 30 carsten steins duesseldorf , germany against arbitrary features in inflection : the case of the old english declension 17 . 00 gereon mueller tuebingen , germany phonological constraints on binomial formation in german 18 . 00 susanne wurmbrand boston , usa minimal and maximal heads . particles in particular friday , august 29 , prosodic morphology 9 . 00 martin neef koeln , germany the organization of german nominal inflection 10 . 00 jan kooij / harry van der hulst leiden , netherlands prosodic choices and the dutch nominal plural 11 . 30 curt rice minnesota , usa / troms , norway prosodic output constraints on gender assignment : the problem of dual gender in norwegian 14 . 00 ingo plag marburg , germany morphological haplology in a constraint-based morpho-phonology 15 . 00 geert booij amsterdam , netherlands prosodic output conditions versus prosodic input conditions in germanic morphology for more information , look at http : / / staff-www . uni-marburg . de / ~ wiese / phon-morph . html or write to the organizers : kehrein @ mailer . uni-marburg . de wiese @ mailer . uni-marburg . de there is no conference fee . everybody is welcome , but we would like to know about it if you intend to participate !
