Subject: cocosda-97 in rhodes

cocosda ' 97 announcement and call for submissions cocosda , the coordinating committee on speech databases and assessment , was founded in 1991 , and has held yearly workshops ever since . the 1997 cocosda workshop , on the theme " standards and tools for linguistic annotation of speech databases , " will take place at the convention centre of the rodos palace hotel , in rhodes , greece , on the two days following the eurospeech meeting : friday , september 26 and saturday , september 27 . it will be co-located with the cost workshop on " speech technology in the public telephone network : where are we today ? " held in the same facility on the same two days . overall registration is limited to 200 , 100 from each organization . cocosda aims to promote collaborative work and information exchange for resources and standards in spoken language engineering . it maintains working groups on speech corpora and labelling , speech synthesis assessment , and speech recognition assessment . cocosda workshops include reports on relevant activities around the world , and discussions of topics of mutual interest . further information about cocosda can be found at the url http : / / www . itl . atr . co . jp / cocosda / , and further information about cost ( european cooperation in the field of scientific and technical research ) can be found at http : / / www2 . cordis . lu / cost / src / intro . htm . submissions on the theme of cocosda ' 97 , as well as other relevant subjects , are invited . registration for cocosda ' 97 to register for cocosda97 , see http : / / www . ldc . upenn . edu / cocosda97 . cocosda ' 97 attendees are welcome to attend sessions of the cost workshop as well , though they will have to register separately for cost in order to get a copy of the proceedings . on friday afternoon , there will be a joint cost / cocosda session on the topic of speech recognition . on friday morning and saturday afternoon , cocosda ' 97 will meet separately from cost . there will be both reports of general interest and presentations on the workshop theme . on saturday morning , the three cocosda working groups ( on speech corpora and labelling , speech synthesis assessment , and speech recognition assessment ) will meet separately , as arranged by their individual organizers . information for cocosda ' 97 presenters cocosda ' 97 is focused on standards and tools for linguistic annotation of speech databases . if you would like to make a presentation on the workshop theme , or on another topic within cocosda 's area of interest , please register for the workshop and send an abstract of 500 words or less to cocosda97 @ ldc . upenn . edu . if possible , include a url for papers or project descriptions . all good-faith submissions will be accommodated , though some may have to be placed in a poster session .
