Subject: call for abstracts for the listserve

the 1998 conference of the texas linguistics society title : exploring the boundaries between phonetics & phonology the university of texas at austin march 13-15 , 1998 keynote speakers : abigail cohn , cornell university patricia keating , university of california , los angeles janet pierrehumbert , northwestern university abstracts are invited for 30 minute talks ( with 10 additional minutes for discussion ) on any topic related to the relationship between phonetics and phonology . potential topics include , but are not limited to : theoretical exploration of the interplay between phonetics and phonology encoding phonetic naturalness in phonological theory or representation experimental data ( acoustic or perceptual ) pertaining to phonological patterns and / or sound change phonetic and phonological realizations of specific patterns such as tone and intonation , coarticulation , metathesis , etc . matches and mismatches between phonetic and phonological patterns * especially encouraged * are abstracts dealing with the separation of phonetics and phonology abstracts must be no more than one 8 1 / " 2 by 11 " page , single-spaced , and in at least 12 - point font ( 10 point for examples ) , with one-inch margins on all sides . one additional page with references and diagrams or tableaux may be appended if necessary . all submissions must include the following items : 10 anonymous copies of the abstract 1 3x5 " card with name , affiliation , address , phone number , email address and title of paper deadline for receipt of abstracts is october 17 , 1997 . send abstracts to : tls abstract committee calhoun 501 the university of texas at austin austin , tx 78712 abstracts received after the deadline will not be considered . fax submissions will not be accepted . instructions for email submissions are available upon request . an individual may submit at most one single and one co-authored paper . accepted presenters will be notified by mid - december , 1997 . if presenters wish to have their papers included in the conference proceedings , they must submit a camera-ready copy by may 15 , 1998 . proceedings will be published by the texas linguistic forum . a poster session that will accompany the conference is currently being organized . a call for poster abstracts will be issued soon . preregistration for the conference is $ 15 . 00 ( us ) for students , $ 30 . 00 for nonstudents . for further information , contact tls @ uts . cc . utexas . edu or check out our web page at http : / / uts . cc . utexas . edu / ~ tls / tivoli majors university of texas department of linguistics
