Subject: toc for linguist list

dear sirs , prof . helen dry has offered that we might include announcements of our activities in linguist ( message of 24 april 97 ) . you will find the announcement of a workshop on reported speech below . thank you in advance . manfred roncador announcement of a workshop at the ' 20th conference of the german linguistic society ( dgfs ) ' in halle on ' form and function of reported speech ' coordinators : tom gueldemann and manfred von roncador linguistic studies have increasingly demonstrated that in contrast to the traditional approach a clear-cut distinction between direct and indirect speech is for many languages untenable . the existence of such intermediate forms as semi-direct speech , so-called style indirect libre ( free indirect discourse ) , and logophoric constructions point rather to an analysis whereby the different forms of reported speech are assigned a specific position on a continuum whose extreme poles are characterized by a minimal or maximal shift of the deictic centre ( cf . roncador 1988 ) . in the framework of such a theoretical approach , it is interesting to investigate which different functions the individual forms of reported speech may serve in discourse . another interesting question concerns the grammatical characteristics of quotative constructions ( qc ) , i . e . linguistic expressions used in languages to signal reported speech , and how these qcs are related to the functions of the different categories of reported speech laid out on the continuum mentioned just above . possible features to be investigated in this respect are inter alia the internal structure of qcs , the obligatoriness of the individual propositional elements in them ( such as reference to speaker and addressee ) , the particular strategy for expressing the locutionary aspect , and the nature of the semanto-syntactic relation between qc and the quote itself . the historical processes that qcs or their elements are subject to constitute another possible focus of attention . this is meant to include the discussion on grammaticalization processes in this domain , which is already quite extensive but which has probably focused too much on the development of speech verbs only . as analyses of reported speech in single languages are often still oriented towards concepts developed for european languages , contributions on non - european languages offering new insights on less-known aspects of this functional domain will be particularly welcome . this will serve to put these first attempts to typologize the phenomenon of reported speech in its functional and formal aspects ( cf . roeck 1994 ) on a broader empirical basis . references : roeck , m . de . 1994 . typology of speech reports . in : engberg - pedersen et al . ( eds . ) , function and expression in functional grammar . berlin : mouton de gruyter , pp . 331-351 . roncador , m . von . 1988 . zwischen direkter und indirekter rede : nichtwoertliche direkte rede , erlebte rede , logophorische konstruktionen und verwandtes . tuebingen : max niemeyer . prof . helen dry , dr . manfred von roncador afrikanistik i universitaet bayreuth d-95440 bayreuth tel . + 921 / 55 21 91 fax + 921 / 55 36 27
