Subject: build your own calbe tv descrambler with only 7 parts !

cable television descrambler - easy to make ! build your own cable television descrambler with only 7 parts from radio shack for under $ 12 . 00 . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ( last minute update : " i ' ve seen my letter and instructions sent by individuals that besides violating copy-right laws , are neither responding to the customer nor providing the original , complete set of plans and instructions . please be advised you are risking your money and patience by ordering from individuals who know nothing regarding this tech / electrical matter " - - raul mendez ) build your own cable television descrambler with only 7 parts from radio shack for under $ 12 . 00 . required supplies : = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 1 - radio shack mini-box ( part # 270-235 ) 1 - watt resistor . 2 . 2k - 2 . 4k ohm ( part # 271-1325 ) 1 - 75pf - 100pf variable capacitor ( special order ) 2 - f61a chassis-type connectors ( part # 278-212 ) 12 " - no . 12 solid copper wire 12 " - rg59 coaxial cable tools required : screwdriver & drill . soldering gun & solder ( optional ) . get all the premium movie channels , pay per view and adult entertainment channels for . . . free , free , free ! ! ! now , if i have your attention . . . let me tell you how this fantastic opportunity came about . my name is raul . i live in new york city , new york . i have season tickets to our city s hockey team . i invited a friend of mine to one of the games this last october . he said , " i d love to go if you can have me back home by 10 : 00 p . m . " i told him that some games run just past 10 : 00 p . m . and would he mind we stay if the game was close . his response was , " no , tonight is the mike tyson - evander holyfield boxing match and i have it on pay per view " i said , " do you mind if i watch the fight with you " ? he said , " sure , no problem " . so we go watch this great fight on cable pay per view and we are the only two guys at my friends house . after the fight ( since it was so good ) i offered to pay half of the cost for the fight . my friends answer was , " no , no , that s not necessary . . . i got the fight for free ! " . i said to him , " for free , don t those fights cost around $ 40 . 00 a pop ? " he told me , " yes , they do , but i bought a cable descrambler box from an acquaintance of mine for $ 300 . 00 " . he further explained that this " little black box " gets all the pay per view events available ! it also tunes in all the premium movie channels and all the adult entertainment channels . my response ( without hesitation ) was , " i gotta have one ! " " $ 300 . 00 , no problem where do i pay ! ! ! " i m serious , i was excited . lifetime premium movie channels , pay per view and adult entertainment all for a one-time fee of $ 300 . 00 . . . no way ! ! ! " no way " was right . the guy that sold my buddy the box was no where to be found . i was really disappointed . it was now time for desperate measures . i begged and pleaded with my friend until he agreed to let me take his box apart piece by piece to see how to make one for myself . luckily it was very easy , if it wasn t simple i knew their was a slight chance it was not going back together so pretty . now the rest is history . . . i ve got my own box which i built with my own two hands . would you like to build one yourself ? ! ? ! if so , would you pay $ 300 . 00 . maybe so , maybe not . probably not , unless you saw one work first . but since that is not possible , i will sell you a complete set of instructions on how to build one yourself for a measly $ 12 . 00 . however , at that price you must also enclose a # 10 self addressed stamped envelope with 55 cents postage affixed . you might ask , is this some type of rip-off scam deal . the answer is no ! everything has specific mechanics of how and why they do what they do . we are just used to flipping a switch or pushing a button or moving the mouse across our computer pads . it all happens because of a certain set of processes . the cable television descrambler is no different . however , for legal purposes i must add to this letter that this offer and set of instructions shall be void where prohibited by law and the assembling of parts necessary to make this " little jewel " work is for educational purposes only . to order a set of the instructions send $ 12 . 00 by cash , check or money order payable to : raul mendez enterprises , 50 lexington av suite 209 , new york city , ny 10010 i will mail your order out within 24 hours of receiving it . further , i will give you a refund upon written request if you are unsatisfied for any reason . happy holidays ! ! ! sincerely , raul mendez p . s . : the use of this mini-box if you choose to go on and see if your creation works requires no alteration of your existing cable system . you simply screw it in , right behind your television . p . p . s . : without the instructions it s like figuring out how to set the clock on your vcr . with the instructions , you are guaranteed success .
