Subject: creating wealth in america

creating wealth in america > from the desk of robert allen , the author of 2 mega best - sellers , nothing down and creating wealth in america san diego , california 11 : 29 p . m . " i can't sleep until i get this off my chest . " " i ' m extremely frustrated " . odds are that nine out of ten people who receive this letter will discard it without a second thought . yet , i know that i have discovered a secret that could change your financial life forever ! and i ' m willing to share it with you for free . do you want to end your money pressures forever ? do you want to double your income ? do you want to build an extra stream of income quickly ? if you answered yes , then let me show you how you can begin living your dreams , this year before it 's too late . i ' ll get right to the point . as it says on the letterhead , my name is robert allen . i ' m famous for my two # 1 new york times best-selling books . nothing down and creating wealth in america . there are lots of millionaires who credit their success to one of my books or seminars . so when i share this secret with you , i want you to know that i ' ve done my homework . here it comes . i have discovered what i believe is the perfect home-based business . although i ' m well known for real-estate investment books and seminars , this new business has absolutely nothing to do with real-estate . in fact , it 's much easier and far less risky . it involves : - no employees - little risk - little start up cash - it 's so simple , anyone can do it you could be earning $ 1 , 000 a week in as little as 90 days . one person i know went from zero to $ 3 , 000 a week in 60 days . that 's $ 150 , 000 a year extra , hassle-free income ! in my 20 years of research , i can honestly say , " i ' ve never seen a faster , easier way to create a stream of income " . i know this sounds too good to be true . frankly , i did n't believe it myself at first . finally , i agreed to check it out . as a test , i selected a small group of people and introduced them to this incredible opportunity . almost immediately , many of them started earning profits . within a week , many were earning incomes of $ 4 , 000 per month in net cash flow . now , some of them are cashing checks for $ 3 , 000 a week . and this is just the beginning ! their earning potential could be unlimited ! would you like to learn how to do that ? i 'd love to show you how . but only if you ' re interested enough to make one telephone call . the number to call immediately is 1-888 - 571-6637 . it 's a 3 - minute , 24 - hour recorded message . this may be the answer you have been seeking . warmly , robert g . allen p . s . i want to show you how to create extra streams of income quickly , go to the phone and call now 1-888 - 571-6637 .
