Subject: secrets of the internet

making millions - secrets of the internet yes . i am going to reveal in detail and with internetlinks all of the secrets of the internet that can make you rich - rich - rich . this is a result of years of research . my research . days and nights until the wee hours of the morning searching and compiling data . i knew that some people were getting rich using the internet for relatively little investment . now i know how . i am willing to share it with you but that can change at any moment . frankly , many people are trying to shut me down . and i am getting a little worn from it all . so get this info while you can . why am i not keeping these secrets to myself and using them to make millions . in fact , i am using them at this time and that is how i know that they work . i am making them available to you because no one else will and that creates a business opportunity for me . simple as that . if you feel nervous about investing a few dollars to make millions then simply do not do it . enough said . $ 19 . 95 - making millions - secrets of the internet - part one * * * how to setup a web server on your home pc for free * * * the first step to making millions on the internet is to setup your own web server so you can host your site and send and receive email with the least interference . i show you how to get free web server software and how to control your site remotely and keep it up all the time without expensive equipment . i will show you how to make your home computer into a cash generating internet storefront . $ 99 . 95 - making millions - secrets of the internet - part two ( including part one ) * * * how to market to millions of internet users thru 20 , 000 news groups * * * the second step to making millions on the internet is to have the proper software and the proper methods to use the news groups to market your products . if you attempt to use your browser to access news groups it will probably take your over 100 years to access them all . that is why the proper software is a necessity . and if you have the proper software and do not observe the proper ettiquete then you will get thrown off your isp ( internet service provider ) within hours . i will point you to both the proper software to access thousands of news groups a minute and to market to the news groups without getting the boot from your isp . $ 199 . 95 - making millions - secrets of the internet - part three ( including part one and part two ) * * * how to market to over 60 million internet users thru bulk e - mail * * * the third step to making millions on the internet is to have the proper software and the proper methods to use the bulk email to market your products . if you attempt to use your browser to send bulk email it will probabbly take your over 1000 years to send lists of 60 million plus . that is why the proper software is a necessity . and if you have the proper software and do not observe the proper ettiquete then you will get thrown off your isp ( internet service provider ) within hours . i will show you where to buy good bulk email , how to build your own lists while you sleep and how to send your bulk emai without getting the boot from your isp . $ 279 . 95 - making millions - secrets of the internet - part four ( including part one and part two and part three ) * * * how to use subliminal methods for effective banner advertising * * * the final step to making millions on the internet is effective banner advertising . it is not enough to put something up and pray . i will show you how to incorporate subliminal technology into your banner advertising to literally make people click on your ad and come to your site . and i will show you how to literally make them buy your products with these same techniques . how do you order ? make your check or money order payable to : " secrets of the internet " 11470 euclid avenue - suite 525 cleveland , oh 44106 usa be sure to put your email address on your check or money order and i will email your secrets of the internet immediately . order ' part four ' before july 1 , 1998 and get 61 million fresh email addresses for free ! ! !
