Subject: dick armey 's slip

so dave wharton , have determine that the delay between richard armey 's " barney fag " remark and its correction last less than a second , be confident that it must have be " a slip and not a slur " ( presumably blameless ) , all the more since armey have a ph . d . and a wealth of political savvy and " would not think it to his advantage to make such an utterance . " a victim , then , of linguist with ulterior agenda . how in the in the world be one to respond to such a statement ? if wharton have make the suggestion 75 year ago you may repeat the observation that freud offer in the introductory lecture to the effect that the merely somatic or phonetic concommitent of slip can't explain why they occur when they do - - as he put it , it 's like tell a policeman that the darkness of the night and the isolation of the street have cause your purse to be snatch . what may have possess armey , then ? the new republic have point out that he be one of only forty-seven member ( gingrich be not among them ) who vote against george bush 's heat crime statistic act , which allow the government to record violence against homosexual ; that he vote to exclude people with aids from the american with disability act ; that he vote to deny government fund to group that boycott the boy scout of america on the grounds of that organization 's anti-gay policy ; and that he refuse to sign a voluntary statement say that his own office do n't discriminate against homosexual . of course the remark be n't " intentional , " but the evidence be pretty thick that armey harbor just the sort of inner demon who would have be lie in wait for any breach in conscious attention . most inhabitant of the late 20th century will acknowlege some acquaintance with pesky creature like these , and you would think that it would be only by an act of willful repression that someone could deny their existence entirely . but maybe we should give wharton the benefit of the doubt ; maybe his be a genuine victorian innocence . only , just think of it ! all those theorist argue that we be live the twilight of modernist era , when there be still people ( with an " edu " in their address , yet ) on whom it have not even begin to dawn .
