Subject: addendum to coston 's object affix

in his summary of object affix ( linguist list : vol-6 - 235 . frus 17 feb 1995 ) , simon corston observe : language with object affix but which lack affix indicate other grammatical relation do occur , but would appear to be uncommon . that , however , really depend on what we mean by object affix ( and subject affix for that matter ) . so - call subject and object affix fall into three type : ( i ) nonreferential / nonanaphoric agreement marker ; ( ius ) ' functionally ambiguous ' agreement marker ( i . e . function as both nonreferential / nonanaphoric agreement marker and anaphoric / referential marker depend on the context ) ( bresnan and mchombo 1987 ) ; and ( iius ) anaphoric or referential marker . the nuclear micronesian group provide an interest case for the forego distinction . for instance , in woleaian , the subject marker be independent word , wherea the object marker be suffix . but they be both functionally ambiguous agreement marker . in kusaiean , the subject and object marker be also independent word and suffix , respectively . but they be all referential pronoun . for more detail discussion of the nuclear micronesian language see my paper : ' the verb - object bond principle : with special reference to nuclear micronesian language ' ( see ref below ) . if the complexity in subject and object affix ( viz . the three type mention above ) be disregard , probably corston 's observation may hold . but if only anaphoric / referential subject and object marker be take into account , it may be a different story . in fact , in the same paper i have use a small convenience sample of 40 language to ascertain whether the verb - object bond principle ( as propose in tomlin 1986 : ' a transitive verb and its object form a more cohesive , unify syntactic and semantic whole than do a transitive verb and its subject ' ) be evident in the pronominal system as well : e . g . object pronoun be more tightly bond to the verb than subject pronoun be . the upshot of this investigation be that object pronoun ( e . g . affix ) be more tightly bond to the verb than subject pronoun ( e . g . independent word ) . this suggest that insofar as referential / anaphoric marker be concern , ' language with object affix but which lack affix indicate other grammatical relation ' may be crosslinguistically common , rather than uncommon . referenece bresnan j . and s . mchombo 1987 . topic , pronoun , and agreement in chichewa . language 63 : 741-782 . givon , t . 1976 . topic , pronoun , and grammatical agreement . in subject and topic , ed . by c . n . li , pp . 149-188 . new york : academic press . tomlin , r . s . 1986 . basic word order : functional principle . london : croom helm . song , j . j . 1994 . the verb - object bond principle : with special reference to nuclear micronesian language . oceanic linguistic 33 . 2 ( in press ) . jae jung song university of otago new zealand
