Subject: language policy

admittedly , i ' m come in on the middle of this discussion , have miss the earlier message . however , i be strike by m . hale 's disturb feeling about " reference to such ( non-linguistic ) issue as " citizenship " and " ethnicity " " . how can you manage a language plan project without take into consideration such non-linguistic factor , in addition to a study of language attitude , government policy past and present , language of education and social mobility , etc . etc . ? and something else to think about perhap . . . while the language planner ( s ) may not favor legal restriction outright , the legal promotion of a language or language , which seem like the opposite course , could actually lead to unofficial restriction of the other language ( s ) . someone mention the case of spanish and english in the us . last week i hear a radio ( npr ? ) news report that some monolingual english speaker can't find work in the miamus area because they do n't speak spanish ( the report be in reference to a politician 's support of make english the official language of the us ) . at a national / federal level , one could argue that spanish be a minority language ; at a local / city level , one could argue that it be not . do we have here a case of the promotion of spanish lead to unofficial restriction on english - speaker , at least at a city level , in term of employment opportunity ? my point be that the definition of " minority language " be go to depend on the specific situation . i be currently involve in a small-scale language plan project ( in the capacity of director ) and the toughest decision i come across have to do with the " non-linguistic " factor : the people , the emotion , the feeling and the idea they have toward the other people who do n't speak their language . even a small project be extremely complex . deborah du bartell , ph . d . linguistic program edinboro university of pennsylvanium edinboro , pa 16444 usa 814-732 - 2736
