Subject: human and non - human language

bear on the question of primate language skill be the observation that they appear not to imitate the * manner * of do something - - controvert the " monkey see , monkey do " see . a clue as to why people have culture and language and primate do not come up in a national geographic series on primate research that i see a few week ago . they have show some chimp use stick to poke through hole in a " beehive " and suck off honey , introduce the topic of tool use . in the next segment , the researcher have some candy on a table surround by some sort of cage with vertical bar . he have a primitive kind of rake with three wide-space tine rest on the table , the handle through the bar . the chimp have the same , on an adjacent section of the table . if the tine be down , they could n't get the candy because the wide-space tine could n't retain it . the researcher demonstrate flip the rake over . with the back of the rake on the table top , it be easy to pull the candy to one 's hand . no matter how often he see it , the chimp do n't get it . the inference from this and other experiment be that the primate perceive use of the tool to accomplish the end , but do not attend to the manner of use the tool . in the next segment , there be a similar setup with a small child . the child fail with the tine down . then the adult demonstrate flip his rake over . the child immediately , on the next turn , do the same , even move the rake through a curve path very much like that execute by the adult 's rake , to capture the object ( a block ) and pull it back to the edge . in support of this hypothesis , i believe there be no observation of cultural difference between one community of primate and another comparable to difference of human " body language " style and linguistic dialect - - difference in the manner of do the " same " thing , functionally inconsequential difference such that " we " do these thing this way and " they " do the same thing that way . bruce nevin bn @ lightstream . com
