Subject: 6 . 351 language policy

frank ashen focus on the divisive effect of promote one of several indigenous language to the position of official language and use the much quote justification that speaker of not-chosen language may feel disadvantage . he do not mention the effect of the introduction of a foreign world language on the vernacular . the introduction of foreign official language have , in africa , lead to explicit negative attitude amongst the speaker themselve toward their language . the alternative to the selection of an indigenous language as official language seem to be to disadvantage the whole population . in most african country the foreign official language generally have a very low penetration so that only the elite know it . knowledge of the official language then become a new factor that determine access to power and the well-paid job . at the same time the vernacular be ignore or stigmatise . this means that no or very little fund be available for their development and teach . this means , to come back to tove skutnabb - kanga ' comment , that the population cannot exercise their " right to learn their mother tongue , both orally and in write , up to a high level . " the assumption that frank ashen quote be base on a false departure point , namely that only a colonial language can save an african country from be tear up by its own internal division . i do n't recall any war base on language difference prior to colonisation . africa solve its linguistic diversity by develop lingua franca . djit ? recently ( 1993 ) show that the use of so-cal international language such as english and french have not solve the communication problem of the african mass but in many case contribute toward the " pathology of linguistic bakwardness " . the fact that these language ( such as wolof , swahilus , hausa , lingalum ) be actually spread - without much official help - seem to indicate " a general willingness for cooperation and a cultural and linguistic tolerance that ignore the political boundary inherit from colonization " djit ? ( 1993 : 162 ) . spencer ( 1985 : 395 ) claim that the introduction of european language to africa retard the spread of what he call " african vehicular language " . however , adegbija ( 1994 : 26-27 ) be sceptical of the ability of african lingua franca of be accept outside their present geographical domain . he also warn against the imposition of these language . it would seem that we need a three-language policy such as that of indium : one language for communication with the outside world know by a relatively small section of the population ; one lingua franca for national and regional communication and the various vernacular for local business and primary education . in many african country this be the de facto situation and trilingualism be more common in africa than outside linguist seem to realise . this suggestion may avoid the subtractive language learn ( that characterise many african community ) and that tove skutnabb - kanga find " a violation of minority ' linguistic rights " . the source that i refer to : adegbija , e . 1994 language attitude in africa : a sociolinguistic overview . clevedon : multilingual matter . djit ? , p . g . 1993 " language development in africa . " in : international journal of the sociology of language 100 / 101 : 149-166 . spencer , j . 1985 " language and development in africa : the unequal equation . " in : wolfson , n . and j . mane ( ed . ) 1985 language of inequality . berlin : mouton : 387-397 . august cluver department of linguistic university of south africa
