Subject: re : 6 . 44 varia : animal and who , kant and innateness

david power say : ) the whole point of science be ) to explain the phenomenon we observe , and say that " we be bear with it " be ) not an explanation . . . . ) even give the validity of the claim , the fact beg an explanation . . . . ) linguistic have a tendency to stop at be descriptive . science alway go ) further than mere description . describe the commonality present across the ) full range of human language , in a neat , parsimonious way , be but a first step ; ) for science demand explanation : why do language have the form it do ? ) where do these universal come from ? why do we have this range of parameter ) setting ? what relationship do language have to think ? consciousness ? ) perception ? while i agree that linguistic inquiry should push the ` explanatory ' envelop as far as it possibly can , let us not deceive ourselve into think that ` explanation ' , of the type david power speak of , be anything more than another level of description . in the ultimate sense , it remains true that science can never hope to explain anything in any essential way . it can only establish cause and effect link but cannot take these back to ultimate origin . to do so call for an infinite wisdom that human and artificial intelligence be simply incapable of . it be reason itself which tell us this be so . to pretend it be ( or can be ) otherwise be to undermine the very tenet of reason on which we base our analysis of this world and to enter the realm of faith , unreasonably turn reason into a religion in the process . at its very best , human science can only provide us with partial explanation , which be really description in disguise . perhap this be disagreeably humble to the ambition of the human enterprise , but this be the conclusion that we must come to unless we abandon empirical foundation altogether and claim , as an article of faith , that humankind possese infinite cognition . if we be not will to accept the latter proposition , then we must recognize that the very empiricism that we adhere to in order to do science lead us to the kantian barrier beyond which reason will not take us . concommitantly , like kant , we must accept that reason , at the point where it can go no further , point us in the direction of a transcendent origin . probably david power do not intend his remark to project us into the realm of absolute . but when it be a question of the philosophy of science , absolute be not only fair game , they be essential to proper reflection . michael d . picone university of alabama mpicone @ ua1vm . ua . edu
