Subject: re : racist linguist plot ( linguist list : vol-5 - 1467 )

regard steven schaufele 's recent post on " language amongst the anthropoidea , or , the racist linguist plot " , wherein he claim never to have notice any anti-animal " racism " in his train : i remember know about racism but not yet know about institutionalize racism - - wherein an institution be so permeate with racism that people be not even aware that what they say or do be racist . but let 's change the word " racist " to * species-ist * , since 1 ) racist do n't exactly fit cross-specy issue except in the older mean of " human race " , 2 ) species-ist point more clearly to our anthropocentrism , and 3 ) i no longer like to use the current concept of race because the history of its use over only the past 100 year with this particular mean ( check the oed ) have not prove useful to me for inclusion into any explanation . dr . schaufele say , ) i certainly do n't remember anything in the introductory survey ) course i ' ve take myself . . . so much as hint that it be an ) a priorus assumption of the field of linguistics that language ) be the exclusive prerogative of homo sapien . maybe the hint be all around , but never notice . let 's next consider whether linguistics may be guilty of not overt but * covert * and institutionalize species-ism , embed so pervasively as to be invisible to some . moonhawk 's institutionalize specy - ism hypothesis predict that unwit species-ism will be reflect : * in textbook through the posit of such process as syntax and morphology ( which we claim animal do n't have ) as " universal of language " * in the use of metonymy ( part for whole ) to define * language * in term of these putative universal , syntax & morphology , process we claim only human have , and then in call everything else without such machinery * communication * ( which * true linguist * do n't study or publish on . ( n . b . , it 's not like you can go to a school or department of * communication * to study how animal communicate - - - so this be terminological limbo : few linguist really care what animal do ; it 's see as irrelevant ) . * such truism as " there be no primitive language " in our intro class - - where primitive be tacitly understand to mean " with reduce or without the machinery of morphology & syntax " . ( this automatically disallow what ape , cetacean and other do from be call language , give our other claim above . ) * the omission of " chimpanzee " in the inventory of world 's language * such construct as lad ( language acquisition device ) and " innate predisposition to language " apply uniquely to human . ( have you ever see anyone posit either construct for the great ape or cetacean ? ) * in standard theory and story on the " origin of language " with exclusively human protagonist ( bow - wow and yo - he - ho theory , biblical tower of babel ) * in language acquisition class that study primarily what human do , with some emphasis on how human diverge from animal just for comparison 's sake , to see how we take off developmentally from where they stop * in such phrase as " uniquely human " and " social contract " ( " sign of the ape , song of the whale , " , nova , 1984 , discuss washoe 's use of asl : " washoe have cross the line into exclusively human territory . " ) these be just the tip of the iceberg , off the top of the head . look around with sensitive eye and you ' ll see the subtle sign of this species-ism everywhere . no one have to plot or say anything overtly species-ist because , give the totality of our system , animal can never break through our self-impose cultural definitional language barrier ( as sue savage - rumbaugh so aptly note ) . if a chimp and a child perform exactly the same behavior , the child 's be adjudge * linguistic * and the chimp 's be not , because child , unlike chimp , be say to be " on their way to language " ( i . e . , syntax ) . [ thank to marilyn silva for her assistance to this point ; she thoroughly disavow any connection with what follow ! ] just so that we may see this species-ism more clearly , first a teach i ' ve post before , and then a brief outline for a model from a species-inclusive point of view that flow from the teach . " long ago , man and animal and spirit and plant all communicate in the same way . then something happen . after that , human have to speak to each other in human speech . but we retain the old language for dream , and for communicate with spirit , animal , and plant . " this be what a non-specy - ist ( cheyenne ) language origin story look like - - all of nature communicate in a common way , and then * human * move out of that system and do something different , the human kind of language , but remain still connect to the original language process whether they know it or not . wilhelm von humbolt , founder of linguistics as a university discipline , observe : " man , regard as an animal , belong to one of the sing species ; but his note be alway associate with idea . " non - species-ist account be alway inclusive and evolutionary , not exclusive . and now for a model that flow naturally from the story . 1 ) we now call * language * every " natural system " which have utterance ( incl . sound , gesture , chemical , etc . ) combine with mean . 2 ) we notice that as well as this share , human also have difference - - different language process that animal do n't seem to have ( morphology & syntax ) , so we call them two process of human-specific language , the human kind of language , or just * human language * - - but we no longer designate it by merely the bare word * language * in the old exclusivist , species-ist way . this model declare that human partake of other process in the more inclusive * language * as well as those of specifically * human language * , so we look for similarity between human and animal . indeed , both have motor / gestural component and spatial syntax associate with utterance and mean , and both ( at least those with limbic system * * * ) modulate emotion into their utterance . and , perhap most important of the similarity , both utter idioms ! idiom be funny critter , when you think about it ; as the george foreman of the * hide side * of linguistics - - the part of human language that do n't work by normal human language rule - - they tend to knock out every bite of morphological and syntactic machinery they encounter , not play by the rule , and consequently can help us question our culturally condone uniqueness attitude as well . let me explain . it strike me recently , and i ' ve never encounter anyone else discuss this similarity , that the definition of idiom or formulaic speech - - utterance whose mean cannot be piece together from the meaning of the piece , but must be attach to the whole utterance - - be exactly the same as the definition for any act of non-human communication you can find in the textbook ( for bee dance , bird song , etc . ) . in fact this definition be perhap why non-human being be usually say not to have ( human ) language - - because the piece of their utterance can't be add up to make the whole mean the way we say we can use morphology and syntax in human language . human and animal thus intersect in * language * , in its entire evolutionary range , at most level - - idiom , sound , emotion , gesture ( pheromone ? ) - - and then human only sometimes also construct new utterance from scratch . most typically we tend to use more idiom & formulaic speech with those we know well , and use it less with stranger , with whom we tend to use more formal and public speech . bee and bird and tree tend to know each other in their group very well and can therefore be say to use idiom in their own language . just like us ! - - that be , unless we want to call ourselve sub-human and merely communicate , not use language , when we use idiom and formulaic speech . this move , should you accept it , irrevocably put human , land animal , sea creature , tree , and maybe more , all on the same * language * map . but can these ' wild ' speculation , however evolutionarily base , actually be accomodate within a " real " linguistic theory ? about 15 year ago , charle fillmore be work on a unify approach i really admire ( and perhap it 's a partial fulfillment of the reconciliation annabel cormack call for in vol-5 - 1469 on trend in lx ) , which go something like this ( any error be mine ) : when we be " online " compose / speak , which i now must see as similar to dan slobin 's " think for speak " mode , our process be to ' reach ' first for a handy ready-made piece of formulaic speech , and then , fail that - - lack a ' match ' or not like the proffer ' match ' - - we go on to construct from scratch . nature simply do n't have the further " from scratch " level , but shares everything to that level . fillmore 's formulation seem to fit quite nicely the picture of the evolutionary development of language ( and its synchronic effect ) that i have attempt to sketch here . ( sorry for any embarassment my use of it may have cause you , chuck ! ) the degree to which the above species-inclusive formulation may tend to disturb you quite faithfully reflect , i would guess , the degree to which you be embed in the institutionalize species-ism so pervasive in linguistics , since these formulation be quite possibly the first truly * alternative * origin theory you have ever see . because language and intelligence be usually link , this more compassionate model also have the advantage of place intelligence in nature and not so much the burden of just human being . with this approach , linguistics could forge an academic path toward reconcilliation between western mind and nature that could provide a powerful rationale for at least slow down , if not stop altogether , the current ecocide , and institute a new-though - ancient attitude of * respect * for the intelligence of nature . no linguist who sincerely want to understand what * language * be all about can any longer afford to ignore its deeper process in nature - - natural language , of which human natural language be an important subset . * * * anyone wish to see how this inclusive approach further include brainmind research - - the relevant evolution of brain structure and of brainwave rhythm - - can contact me at dalford @ s1 . csuhayward . edu . - - moonhawk ( % - ) ) ( " the fool on the hill see the sun go down and ) ( the eye in his head see the world spin round " ) ( - - mccartney / lennon )
