Subject: cuba

in november i post a query as to whether anyone on the list , particularly in the usa , have have any experience of , or problem with , communicate with cuban academic . only four people reply , which may in itself be significant . anyway , thanks to those four for their communication . to summarise : 1 . two people i know have be ask for offprint by linguist at havana university . 2 . there be an exhibition by some ' third world ' american at the biennial contemporary art exhibition just hold in cuba , report in the november issue of ' new art examiner ' . 3 . some academic receive last year a call for paper for an international conference in cuba include area on speech process , computational linguistics etc . the contact be : dr eloina miyare bermudez ( cmstg @ ceniaus . cu ) . 4 . one respondent from the list tell me that it be possible to e-mail cuba from the us . there be another source of information in the form of an e-mail list in spanish , espana - l @ albnyvm1 . bitnet , which be primarily a social list for people who speak spanish ( spanish be the language of the list ) and be spanish or interest in spain . the cuba-l list can be read and contribute to worldwide . on several occasion , a member have forward something from cuba to the list , include recently a crus de coeur quote passage of the cuban constitution and demonstrate that it be actually a travesty . the original writer , a cuban , be very openly decry the cuban constitution . the poster quote por - tion of the constitution , then give example of how the regime flout it to the harm of the cuban people and the self-aggrandizement of castro , the local police captain , or " the system " in general . that writer seem to have no fear of retribution , as if the cuban list be the only safe place to speak up , and be indeed safe , unlike whisper in the corner bar . the correspondent finish : " castro can't keep cuban from speak freely , and the us government can't keep american from listen to or talk with the cuban . " if anyone else wish to comment , please forward your communication to me , and i ' ll produce another summary . paul . foulk @ uk . ac . newcastle
