Subject: kant and innateness

reference to innateness in kant be not easy to find , but here be one that be relevant to the current controversy regard linguistic " realism " v . " conceptualism . " a middle course may be propose bewtween the two above mention , namely , that the category be neither self-thought first principle apriorus of our knowledege nor derive from experience , but sujective disposition of think , implant in us from the first momement , so order by our creator that their employment be in complete harmony with the law of nature in accordance with which experience proceeds - - a kind of preformation-system of pure reason . . . there be this decisive ojection . . . that the necessity of the category . . . then would have to be sacrifice . ( b167-168 . _ critique of pure reason _ tran . kemp smith . ) noam chomsky observe that " rationalist " as well as " empiricist " theory of language incorporate " innate disposition . " ( _ reflection on language _ . pantheon . 1975 . p . 215 ) whether the logical modality enter the linguistic picture be uncertain , but one can imagine that on some formulation of minimality the connection with economy of derivation may be necessary in some sense , to choose a possible example just for the purpose of illustration . if so , then such modality may not exclude " psychologism " in linguistics and with it conceptualism alum chomsky . one consequence would be that argument against extend linguistic " psychologism " to logic would not be bar for the fregean reason sometime cite by linguist ( e . g . katz and postal in _ linguistic and philosophy _ . 14 , 1991 . p . 520 . the importance of kant for the history of the philosophy of linguistics be not innateness , rather it be in recognize that concept be rules . ( ibid . a106 ) . these rule allow the identification of the form of " judgment . " within a framework of rule ( " principle " ) and parameter , kant 's view of concept take on special significance , eventually point toward a possible resolution of the question of the place of linguistics within science . steven bayne ( grad student ) uconn , linguistic stevenbayne @ delphus . com
