Subject: synthetic compound summary

dear colleague , in april i send a query to linguist about synthetic compound . i receive over 30 reply . i have try to respond personally to all of the reply , but a couple of my message bounce . i apologize to anyone i miss . i appreciate all of the response i receive . i be proud to be a part of intellectual community where so many people be eager to share their hard win knowledge . a summary of what i have learn follow . it can be divide into four part . part 1 present some question about what i have take as give in my initial query . part 2 consist of a bibliography of work that i and other have find useful in our research on compound . part 3 . is a table show the datum i have so far . i encourage you to look over it may surprise you or you may disagree with what i say about your favorite language ( if you do please write me , i know very little about most of these language and have no way of judge if what i have read about them be the widely accept view . in part 4 i explain the project i be currently work on and make yet another call for datum ( no matter how much i get i want more ) . i hope that this summary be useful for most of you and interest to at least some . part 1 : i get some very interest reply to my query which instead of or in addition to offer datum , question the very notion of synthetic compound that i have base my query on . my post be as follow : i be look for information on synthetic compound like the english " truck driver " and the french " essuie-glace " where one element of the compound be a verbal and the other element be interpret as its object . i be try to find out if there be any connection between the order of the element in these compound and the order of the element in a vp . i already have information on how these compound be form and use in english , french , spanish , italian , dutch , igbo , and jacaltec , but have be unable , despite hour in the library , to find information on other language . the question fall into two main category ? 1 . what do i mean by " synthetic " compound ? on the surface this seem like a simple terminological question but it go much deeper than that . in research this type of compound i have see them call by any number of name ; deverbal , verbal , v + n , v + o , nominalization . . . . . i do n't know where the term " synthetic " come from i just use it because it be the one i be teach . each of these term have its own merit and fault and reflect the theory of compound the user ascribe to , which be all well and good but it make research in this area very difficult . another problem arise in part from or simply reflect in the plethora of term for this type of compound be the fact that no two linguist define the group in the same way . for some a synthetic compound can only be make up of a verbal and noun that can be interpret as its direct object ( dishwasher , face paint ) for other the noun can be an oblique object as well ( theater goer ) and other will call any compound with a verbal element a synthetic ( examine room ) . for the purpose of my current work i be only interest in the first type ( v + do ) , in fact only the subset where the compound be understand to be a person or object that preform the action ie . a dishwasher : something / one that wash dish . 2 . why do i think that " driver " of " truck driver " be a " verb " it be obviously a " noun " ? why be n't i look at the order of nps instead of that of vps ? admittedly at first glance the compound " truck driver " do seem to be make up of two noun " truck " and " driver " . in fact i cannot at this point think of any compel argument against this view except that word like " driver " tend to be semantically weak and except in a few case like that of " driver " unless they appear as part of a compound they have no mean out of context . compare " grower " with " apple grower " . the french compound present even better support for the verb base view . the " essuie " of " essuie-glace " ( windshield-wiper ) be a straight forward verb form . there be no french noun " essuie " ( * wiper ) thus french synthetic at least cannot be n + n compound , and if we want a unify theory of synthetic then english synthetic cannot be n + n either . if you want to comment on either of these question , please do so directly to linguist . i think either of them could lead to a good general debate and i have already say all i have to say about these subject at the moment . part 2 : synthetic compound bibliography ( warn some citation be incomplete , i hope this do n't cause anyone too much trouble ) adam , valerie . an introduction to modern english word - formation . new york : longman bauer , laurie . english word formation . cambridge : cambridge university press ( 1983 ) - - - . the grammar of nominal compound : with special reference to danish , english , and french . odense : odense university press , ( 1978 ) . beard , robert . lexeme - morpheme base morphology . suny press ( this summer ) booij , g . and t . van haaften . " on the external syntax of derive word : evidence from dutch . " yearbook of morphology 1 . ( 1988 ) : 29-44 . chao , yuen - ren . a grammar of spoken chinese . berkeley : university of californium press . ( 1968 ) ( page 415-434 ) chus , telee r . ra study of verb - object compound in mandrin chinese in thompson , s . a . & lord , c . ( 1974 ) approach to the lexicon . ucla paper in syntax , # 6 . lo angele : university of californium press . - - - . a lexical analysis of verb - noun compound in mandrin chinese . taipeus : crane publish co . ( 1985 ) . chang , karen steffen . verb + noun function describe compound . bulletin of the college of liberal art , national taiwan university no 41 ( 1994 ) 181-222 craig , c . the jacaltec language . bloomington : indiana university press , 1973 ( have a nice section on word formation ) darmesteter , arsene . traite de la formation de mot compose dan la langue francai comparee aux autr langue romane et au latin . pari : librairie honore campion ( reprint of 1893 work ) ( 1967 ) drapeau , lynn . aspect de la morphologie du nom en montagnai . thesis . universite de montreal . ( 1979 ) . - - - . " le nom composs en montagnai " recherch linguistique a montreal : montreal work paper vol . 12 , may 1979 linguistique amerindinenne i : syntax algonquienne gavarro , anna . syntactic theory and the grammar of catalan compound . dissertation university of edinburgh ( 1990 ) greenberg , gerald r . " stress in polish compound . " lingua : international review of general linguistic . 70 : 2 - 3 ( nov . 1986 ) : 163-170 . koptjevskaja - tanm , maria . nominalization . new york : routledge , 1993 . lehmann , w . p . " proto - indo - european compound in relation to other proto - indo european syntactic pattern . " acta linguistica hafniensium 1969 , 3-20 . lehmann , ( w . p . ) ? theoretical basis of indo - european linguistic . routledge ( 1993 ) ( page recomend to me 64 , 148-50 , 255 - 6 ) leiber . r . " phrasal compound in english and the morphology - syntax interface . " paper from the parasession on agreement in grammatical theory . 202-22 . - - - . " argument link and compound in english . " linguistic inquiry vol 14 ( 1983 ) - - - . deconstruct morphology ( 1992 ) leonard , rosemary . the interpretation of english noun sequence on the computer . amsterdam : north holland ( 1984 ) levus , judith . " the syntax and semantic of complex nominal " in study in modern hebrew syntax and semantic ed cole north holland publish ( 1976 ) pg . 9-55 . li , c . n . and s . a . thompson . mandrin chinese : a functional reference grammar . berkeley : university of californium press . ( page 73-81 ) lloyd , paul m . verb - complement compound in spanish . tubingen : max miemeyer verlag . ( 1968 ) nwaozuzu , g . i . " nominal compound in igbo . " afrika und ubersee : sprachen kulturen . 70 : 2 , 225-244 . selkirk , elisabeth o . the syntax of word . cambridge , ma : mit press , 1982 . spencer , andrew . morphological theory . oxford : basil blackwell , 1991 thiele , johann . la formation de mot en francai moderne . translate by andr cla . montreal : press de l ' universite de montreal , 1987 . varelum , soledad . " the organization of the lexical component : noun - compound in spanish . " acta linguistica scientiarum hungarica . 1986 , 36 : 1 - 4 . 235-44 . vogel , irene . " phonological evidence for level order in italian word formation . " acta linguistica scientiarum hungarica . 1986 , 36 : 1 - 4 . 245-260 . vogel , ( irene ) ? and ? napolus . the verbal component in italian compound . in proceeding of the linguistic symposium on romance language xxii . ed jon amasta , grant goodall , and mario montabetty . philadelphium : john benjamin ( to appear ) wilco , g . ter stal and paul e . van der vet . two - level semantic compound . wonderly ( 1951 ) international journal of apply linguistic zwanenburg , ? . " morphological head : french compound and germanic prefixation " in theoretical analyse in romance linguistic ed laeufer and morgan . part 3 the follow table summarize the datum from all the language examine . " ? " indicate hole in the datum language vp order compound order v affix n affix pie ov ov ? ? sanskrit ov ov ? ? latin free / ov ov ? ? french vo vo no no italian vo vo no yes spanish vo vo no yes english vo ov yes no dutch vo ov yes no german vo ov yes no danish vo ov yes no swedish vo ov yes no icelandic vo ov yes no russian free ov yes no serbo - croatian free / vo vo yes yes polish vo vo yes no welsh vo vo yes yes ov yes no igbo vo vo yes no jacaltec vo vo yes no pulaar vo vo yes yes finnish vo ov yes yes west armenian ov ov ? no mandrin chinese ? vo no ? irish gaelic vo vo yes ? thaus svo svo ? ? galacian vo vo ? no / yes hebrew vo vo yes ? no czech ? vo ? ? japanese ? ov yes ? if your favorite language ( s ) be ( be ) miss or you disagree with what i have here please read the next section and send me the datum i need to set thing right . part 4 in the paper i be currently work on i amattempt to see which of two theory make the correct prediction about the surface form of synthetic compound . the first theory , base on hawkin view of parse , predict that the surface form of synthetic will differ as much as possible in order and affixation from the correspond vp so that the listener will not confuse the two . the second theory , base on any number of generative theory of word formation , predict that synthetic and vps will be as similar as possible so that the derivation of synthetic will be as simple as possible . thus english with the affix - er and different word order for synthetic and vps conform with the first theory and french with a similar order conform with the second . basically i need datum from as many language as possible in order to see which of the two theory make the most accurate prediction . i be put severe limit on the datum which i be consider . i be only look a one subset of synthetic , those with an agentive read . by this i mean compound indicate people or instrument that be the agent of the correspond vp , like the english " truck driver " and " dishwasher " or the french " porte-parole " and " essuie-glace " . i choose this subset because it be the most semantically distinct from the vp . the problem cause by a listener confuse agentive compound and the vps would be the more severe than with any other subset and thus this be the environment where one would most expect to see evidence for the first theory . if the first theory do indeed make correct prediction , i may consider other type of synthetic and try to see if there be any type of hierarchy within synthetic base on how semantically distinct they be from their correspond vps . however that be later , for now i just need datum about agentive synthetic . if you be will to send me datum on any of the language miss above please include at least 1 . the name of the language in question ( so i can look it up to get other typological information ) 2 . two or more example with a morpheme by morpheme gloss and a free gloss 3 . simple sentence with the correspond vps gloss as above 4 . the plural and feminine form of example if they exist 5 . and a judgement of how productive this compound process be in the language 6 . any other comment you think be helpful for example french ( francai ) ( l ' ) essuie-glace " wipe ( v stem / 3rd sing ( depend on analysis ) - glass ( n stem ( sg / fem ) ) " " windshield wiper ( n sg masc ) " ( le ) porte-parole " carry ( v stem ) - speech ( n stem ) " spokesman ( n sg masc ) " il essuie la glace . " he ( nom ) wipe ( 3rd sing pre ) the ( fem sing ) glass ( fem sing ) ? elle porte la parole . " she ( nom ) carry ( 3rd sing pre ) the ( fem sing ) speech ( fem sing ) . le essuie-glace ( pl ) no fem exist le porte-parole ( pl ) la porte-parole ( fem ) this pattern be very productive in french especially with - er verb . these compound be alway masculine regardless of the gender of the nominal element . " essuie " and " porte " independently can only be interpret as verb stem of 3rd singular pre . they cannot be use as noun or adjective . phillipe barbaud at universite du quebec a montreal write a nice paper ( the name of which escape me ) on french compound in the late 80 's thank again to all those who reply to my first query . i hope this summary have be of some use . heather anderson hmander @ indiana . edu 322 memorial hall iu bloomington , in 47405
