Subject: sum : x - ray and acoustic signal

dear linguist member , some week ago i publish a request for information about method of measure movement of the articulate organ . within this field i be especially interest in x - ray documentation and film . alouse faber ( faber @ haskin . yale . edu ) write that " back in the 1960 's the center for apply linguistic here in the us make a set of such film of ' exotic ' language . we have a set here at haskin , . . . " caroline smith report on another method of measurement . she write that a method of measurement which work on the basis of electromagnetism be use by " the people at the institut fuer phonetik und sprachliche kommunikation der universitaet muenchen , who be the world leader in electromagneticarticulography ( fipkm @ phonetik . uni-muenchen . de ) . " bob port ( port @ c . indiana . edu ) from indiana report on " x - ray microbeam datum at univ of wisconsin . " and continue " there be now a large amount of material available , but be not in video form " a most interest hint at x - ray documentation i want to give verbally at this place : kenneth r . beesley ( ken . beesley @ xerox . fr ) write : " i have also see x - ray movie from the eastman collection in rochester , new york . these film show , among many other thing , people talk , play musical instrument , and move in various way . for medical interest , there be also film of swallow and bladder function . i have see some x - ray photograph of vowel-production setting from the old ussr , but these be less interest than film . the eastman film , produce in the 1940 and early 50 , i believe , be unintentionally frighten because the dose of x - ray consider safe then be perhap 500 time what they be now . as best i can remember , these film be somewhat inspire by x - ray film make by the nazi use inmate of concentration camp . these film , bring back to the unite state after the war , be watch in fascination by eastman and his colleague . they feature scene with full skeleton walk about . the x - ray dose be no doubt fatal to the victim . " beesley also report on phonetician from the university of glasgow , scotland and member of the school of dentistry , who some eighteen year ago produce x - ray image that show people talk . helmer strike ( strik @ let . kun . nl ) deliver two method of measure articulation : " the technique that resemble the old x - ray film the most be call mri ( magnetic resonance image ) . a good article on this topic be baer et al . ( 1991 ) journal of the acoustical society of america , nr . 90 ( 2 ) , pp . 799 - 828 . . . . another , quite different technique , which be use very often , be call epg ( electro - palato - graphy ) " in particular , i would like to thank ocke bohn ( gen01 . @ rz . uni-kiel . d400 . de ) for have send me an article on how to describe articulation by means of infrare light . she report as well on experiment use ultrasound for record the movement of the articulate organ . in conclusion , i want to give another idea of how to make use of cd-rom in combination with x - ray technology . today 's technology have make it possible to save picture and video ( here video produce through x - ray ) conveniently down onto a cd . this open up the possibility to combine recording of various institution on one cd and , by means of this collection , deliver an outstand contribution to the further understand of what be happen when people talk . beside the actual recording , further information about video and x - ray image that concern both the history of this subject and its methodology could be gather in one single multus media application in such a way that a cd like this would provide important information about the topic " articulation and the method of it measurement " in a user-friendly way and , what be more , would be available for a greater number of non-expert pc - user . anyone interest in this project and will to support this idea should write to one of the follow address : e - mail : fran2801 @ pcmail . uni-trier . de home : ingolf franke zeughausstrasse 31 d-54292 trier germany
