Subject: summary : algonquian homeland

content - length : 10189 in april i make an enquiry about the algonquian homeland of which a slightly abbreviate form be repeat below : * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * i have just be read merritt ruhlen 's _ the origin of language _ . i would like to ask a question or two about the content of the section ' locate the algonquian homeland ' . first , ruhlen say that ' frank siebert have propose the area of the eastern upper great lake as the origin of the algonquian dispersal ' . ruhlen do not source his reference . can anyone give me the source ? secondly , and more importantly , ruhlen appeal to sapir 's age - area hypothesis to the effect that the area of greatest diversity in a family be likely to point to the original homeland of the family . since the greatest divergence be evidently between blackfoot and the rest of the family , in the southwest of the family 's extent , ruhlen suggest , _ contra _ siebert , that the homeland be there , and that the family 's closest external relative be also in that direction . as an initial attempt to locate a homeland , ruhlen 's argument seem sound enough to an outsider . however , the kind of support for them that i would want to look for would be an argument that the first branch in the genealogical tree divide blackfoot from the rest of the family . this would be base on a claim that the rest of the family shares a set of innovation relative to proto algonquian ( a proto algonquian whose reconstruction also take full account of blackfoot datum ) . i go to the library here to see what i could find , and come up with ive goddard 's account of ' comparative algonquian ' in campbell & mithun 's _ the language of native america _ ( 1979 ) . goddard say , if i read him correctly , ( i ) that the only obvious subgroup within algonquian be eastern algonquian ( and he give innovation define this ) , ( ius ) that blackfoot be highly divergent and that its history be not yet understand . goddard 's account understandably do not contain the kind of datum that would allow a non - algonquianist to assess ruhlen 's hypothesis . i would be grateful to anyone who could point me toward any work that would cast light on the question of algonquian subgroup and the homeland or who could comment knowledgably on ruhlen 's homeland hypothesis . * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * i would like to thank those who respond , some of them several time , and those who be generous enough to send me copy of material i could not obtain here . they be : dan alford , peter bakker , david costa , pat crowe , marybeth culley , anthony fox , ive goddard , john koontz , phil lesourd , rob malouf , john o'meara , marc picard , karl teeter . i have n't have time yet to read the recommend reference or to think carefully about the view express , which be vary . so vary , it seem to me , that when i set out to write a summary , i could n't , so i have resort to extract crucial passage from people 's message . i hope this will not result in any misrepresentation . the siebert article be : siebert , frank . 1967 . the original home of the proto - algonquian people . a . d . debloi , contribution to anthropology : linguistic i ( algonquian ) , pp . 13-47 . national museum of canada , bulletin no . 214 , anthropological sery no . 78 , ottawa several respondent draw my attention to the fact that the question of ' homeland ' be relate to the question of time depth , i . e , how far back do we want to go in our search for the homeland ? one point out , however , that if algonquian be a subgroup of algic , then we can define the algonquian homeland as the area where proto algonquian ( a member of the algic subgroup ) be speak , treat the algic homeland separately . ' best guess base on location ( of the algic homeland ) would be some sort of a northwest coast origin , but there be no real evidence for this . ' ' denny place the pa speaker around the upper columbium river in oregon and washington . he base his conclusion on archaelogical evidence , the connection between pa and the larger algic language family , and on the existence of a handful of algonquian language speak along the northern coast of californium . he propose that the pa speaker radiate south to californium and west to the great lake ( give us the precursor of blackfoot , cheyenne , and arapaho along the way ) . at least , i think that 's how it go - you should really check the article . ' ' blackfoot and arapaho be the most divergent ( algonquian ) language , and . . . thus the family probably start in the northern rocky and spread east from there . most algonquianist who think about such thing these day recognize a lot of problem with siebert locate proto - algonquian in southern ontario . ive ' article ( goddard 1994 ) make a lot of sense - - essentially the scenario be that the family come from idaho or thereabout out onto the prairie in montana , and first drop blackfoot . then , it continue east , drop arapaho , cree , menominee - cheyenne , ' core central ' , and eastern algonquian . i ' m not too familiar with what archaeological support there be for this idea , but i do know there be no archaeological support for siebert 's idea ( southern ontario look to be historically iroquoian ) . ' ' have read a number of study by witold manczak that seem to show pretty convincingly that the more conservative language in a family be in and around the original homeland , and the more divergent one on the periphery , i find siebert 's hypothesis much more convince , though i know there be legitimate algonkianist who would side with ruhlen on this . . . . i ' ve be work on algonkian for well over twenty year and i consider siebert to be one of the best algonkianist we ' ve ever have . ' ' for my own part , it seem to me probably relevant to the prehistory of algonquian that blackfoot , arapaho - atsina , and mandan ( siouan ) and hidatsa ( siouan ) be all associate with culture that practice rather similar age group system ( similar society name , system otherwise not find in north america ) , and be locate close together in the middle missourus archaeological area and point north . this region be fairly uniform culturally c . 2000 bp , and i wonder if the culture then most widespead in the area - besant - may not be the source of age group practice . it may also be associate with algonquian language ( s ) , though that would be impossible to prove . i think the siouan group must have arrive somewhat later , during the development of the subsequent middle missourus tradition , but the cheyenne seem to have a middle missourus connection , and perhap the algonquian affiliation with the middle missourus region be older . . . anyway , if besant be largely algonquian , then the exist plain algonquian group ( not a linguistic subgroup ) , may reflect a formerly stronger algonquian presence on the northern plain . ' ' as for the position of blackfoot , i be myself of the opinion that its grammatical system be algonquian , but its lexicon be not . i know cree ( central algonquian ) reasonably well , but blackfoot remains completely unintelligible to me , although the language look very algonquian ( unlike , for instance , gro ventre , arapaho and cheyenne - these algonquian language be just as unintelligible , but this can be attribute to some recent ( few hundr year ago ) radical sound change . . . . but few of these study deal with the place of blackfoot in a comparative light . i think , simply because it be possible only to compare blackfoot and algonquian lexically . actually there be few blackfoot word ( stem ) which the algonquianist be able to link with algonquian . in my opinion . . . it be a mix language , with a few algonquian stem , but the bulk from an unknown and otherwise extinct language family . the blackfoot stem sometime look like algonquian backslang ( such as the word for 'd og ' ; blackfoot imita ( ua ) , plain cree atim ) . otherwise it be just impossible that the grammatical system be so close to cree wherea the lexicon be so different . but probably few hardcore algonquianist would agree . ' reference i be give be : denny , j . peter , 1991 . the algonquian migration from plateau to midwest : linguistic and archeology , in the paper of the twenty - second algonquian conference , ed . william cowan . [ mention by several respondent ] dryer , matthew s . 1992 . a comparison of the obviation system of kutenaus and algonquian , in william cowan , ed . , paper of the twenty - third algonquian conference , pp . 119-163 . ottawa : carleton university . goddard , ive , 1994 . the east - west cline in algonquian dialectology , in acte du vingt - cinquus ' eme congr ' e de algonquinist , ed . william cowan , pp . 187-211 . ottawa : carleton university . [ evidently the most crucial recent work on the homeland question ] proulx , paul . a sketch of blackfoot historical phonology ijal 55 : 1 . proulx , paul . 1982 . " the linguistic evidence for the algonquian - iroquoian encounter . " in : approach to algonquian archaeology . proceeding of the thirteenth annual conference of the archaeological association of the university of calgary , 1980 , pp . 189-211 . calgary : university of calgary . salzmann , zdenek , 1993 . language , culture and society , boulder , col . : westview press . [ contain a summary of siebert ] algonquian and iroquoian linguistic newsletter publish quarterly through he department of linguistic , university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada . malcolm ross linguistic rspas australian national university canberra act australium 128 .
