Subject: qs : serrano and hualapaus

i ' m cross-post this to linguist and endangered-languages - l , so apology if anyone get two of these . * * * * * question 1 : serrano language ( in san bernardino , californium , unite state ) i have be search without luck for anything regard the serrano people and especially the serrano language . i ' ve be able to find out that there remains * one * speaker of serrano leave , but have have no luck so far in contact her . you know how that go : a know b , who know c , whose aunt ( d ) be the last speaker . ( these be reliable people , so i feel confident that d speak serrano ; d 's sister , who also speak serrano , die recently . ) i live about a mile from the san manuel indian reservation . the people there be serrano , but most just know they be " indian , " they do n't know what " tribe . " at the tribal office , the woman i speak to be unaware that there have ever be a serrano language . the information i have so far come from anthropology / archaeology people and linguist work at the morongo indian reservation ( cahuillum , in bann , californium , unite state ) . i ' m afraid that serrano will be history within the next couple of year . doe anyone know where i may find information on the serrano language or the people who once speak it ? * * * * * question 2 : hypothetical situation d , above , be the last remain speaker of serrano . her serrano would be an idiolect , her personal serrano language . suppose i be able to capture all of her knowledge of the language before she die and write a descriptive grammar which be then use by other to learn serrano , and the language survive . ( would n't it be nice if thing work that way ! ) would the original idiolect then be classify as a language ? dialect ? still an idiolect ? if serrano would still be an idiolect , since my understand of the language would most likely be slightly different than d 's , would this be * my * ideolect , or * her * idiolect ? * * * * * question 3 : hualapaus language ( in peach spring , arizona , unite state ) soon , i will be move to peach spring , arizona , to the hualapaus indian reservation . i will be live there for about three month . the hualapaus language be still widely use in peach spring ( still a small group of people though ) , and i be go to be do a very intensive , crash course in hualapaus ( two hour per day , every day , with two native speaker , as well as basic communication with other people outside my " learn " time ) . by the end of my stay , i hope to be able to communicate with other , but i ' m pretty sure i win completely master the language in that short amount of time . my " official job " be set up and fix the computer network for the school there , but i will also be develop some computer application in hualapaus ( as oppose to an english language interface like we be use to see ) . i will also be work with the two native speaker to produce a few book write in hualapaus . in addition to these book , i be go to try to translate some public-domain child 's classic , for example _ the wonderful wizard of oz _ , to help me with learn the language , as well as provide great story for the kid there . i also plan on write a journal of my learn of the hualapaus language ( adult l2 acquisition study ) . i be a self-taught , amateur linguist - - i . e . , i read a lot and pester people with question . the only formal education i have be a 10 - week course in ( english ) language acquisition by child . my question be , be there any interest outside the hualapaus reservation for the software , book , or journal ? the book will be print and we will need to know how many copy to print ( i . e . , just for use at the school , or extra for other people , too ) . a new edition of the hualapaus grammar have be finish ( the old edition be 8 - 1 / 2 x 11 , 575 page ; i have n't see the new one yet ) , but not go to the printer yet , and a dictionary be in the make . the software and journal can be duplicate as need , but the book can be print with title vii fund ( government money ) if they be for use at the school only , but we will have to make other fund arrangement if the book be to be sell to people outside the school . is anyone interest ? * * * * * fyi i develop a font for type in hualapaus . it be * not * intend to be a general-purpose , one-size - fits-all font , it be intend to allow rapid type in hualapaus . the font be a time typeface . currently , i have truetype and postsrcipt version for ibm-pc compatible computer , and in the near future , macintosh version of truetype and postscript font will be available . the sil ( summer institute of linguistic ) and a couple of site in germany have offer me space on their ftp computer for the font . any other ftp site would be appreciate . when i get the font upload , i ' ll post address to the list . the font be " postcard-ware , " i . e . , it be free , but you have to send us a postcard from your hometown . : - ) * * * * * as be usual , i will post summary of answer to my question to the list if there be sufficient interest . thank for wade through this long-wind message . chuck coker cjcoker @ csupomona . edu ccoker @ igc . apc . org
