Subject: final call : esslli98 - workshop corpus annotation

esslli-98 workshop on recent advances in corpus annotation august 17 - 21 , 1998 a workshop hold as part of the 10th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli-98 ) august 17 - 28 , 1998 saarbrueken , germany * * final call for papers * * organizers : han uszkoreit , brigitte krenn , wojciech skut , thorsten brant ( department of computational linguistic , university of the saarland ) web site : http : / / www . dc . warwick . ac . uk / ~ esslli98 / workshop . html background : the use of statistical method and particularly train from annotate corpus have become an important topic in various field in computational linguistics . currently available corpus resource be rather small except for english , and largely restrict to the annotation of parts-of - speech and phrase structure . the workshop be intend to bring together researcher who create reusable annotation scheme , annotation tool , and corpus for different language and kind of language , represent information such as morphology , syntax , semantics , dialoge structure , etc . paper should address some of the follow topic : - reusable and extendable annotation scheme , - efficient annotation of large corpus , - current work on annotation tool , - interaction of human annotator and automatic annotation tool , - representation of competence and performance information within annotate corpus , - other relate topic . presentation of annotation scheme and corpus for various language be encourage , as well as demonstration of implement annotation tool . workshop format : the workshop will consist of five session of 90 minute each hold over five day . there will be either two or three presentation at each session with time for question and discussion . submissions : all researcher in the field , but especially ph . d . student and young researcher , be encourage to submit extend abstract ( 6 page , 12pt ) preferably by e-mail and in postscript . on an extra page , the follow information should be include : 1 . name , affiliation , address , e-mail of the submitter ( s ) . 2 . an indication which of the theme be / be address . 3 . an abstract of the paper . 4 . if applicable , requirement for a demo . e - mail submission shall be send to krenn @ coli . uni-sb . de . hard copy shall be send to : brigitte krenn universitaet de saarland computerlinguistik postfach 1150 66041 saarbruecken germany the deadline for submission be february 15 , 1998 . author will be notify of acceptance by april 15 , 1998 . final copy for inclusion in the informal workshop proceedings be due may 15 , 1998 . registration : workshop contributor will be require to register for esslli-98 , but they will be elligible for a reduce registration fee . important dates : feb 15 , 98 : deadline for submission apr 15 , 98 : notification of acceptance may 15 , 98 : deadline for final copy aug 24 , 98 : start of workshop further information : to obtain further information about esslli-98 please visit the esslli-98 home page at http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / essllus
