Subject: 2nd flexible hypertext workshop

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - the 2nd international flexible hypertext workshop : standard and evaluation held in conjunction with the 7th international world wide web conference ( www7 ) brisbane , australium - - - 14 april 1998 http : / / www . mrus . mq . edu . au / conf / flexht98 / workshop theme : with the explosion of information on the world wide web come the need to provide more flexible mechanism for deliver information to the user . that be , we require mechanism which can modify document on-the - fly in order to take the user 's need into account . static hypertext document suffer from an inability to be all thing to all people ; document and multimedium author must write multiple document for different user rather than a single document which can dynamically modify its content in order to address a particular user 's knowledge or the context of delivery . this workshop be intend as an inter-disciplinary exploration into flexible hypertext system . flexible hypertext system be system which can present different user with different view of the same hypertext network , or which can dynamically create the hypertext network and the content of the document at the node of that network at run-time . this workshop aim to draw together a number of research group take different approach to flexible hypertext system , in order to promote the cross-fertilisation of idea and highlight the prospects for future collaboration . the target research area include ( but be not limit to ) : - information retrieval and filter : the use of information retrieval or other technique to determine the relevance of the node within a static hypertext network for the individual user . that be , the content of the document remain static , but link to other document be flexible . - adaptive hypertext : the adaptation of an exist hypertext network of document to a model of the user . that be , provide flexible document content and flexible view of a static hypertext network . - dynamic hypertext : employ text generation or other technique to dynamically create both the hypertext network and the document within the network as the user request them . the hypertext network do not exist in any form ; it be build dynamically . some relate event which have be hold in the past include : - flexible hypertext workshop , hold at the the eighth acm international hypertext conference ( hypertext ' 97 ) . ( http : / / www . mrus . mq . edu . au / ~ mariam / flexht / ) - intelligent educational system on the world - wide web , hold in conjunction with the 8th world conference on artificial intelligence in education ( ai-ed97 ) . ( http : / / www . contrib . andrew . cmu . edu / ~ plb / aied97 _ workshop / ) - workshop on adaptive system and user modele on the world wide web , hold in conjunction with the sixth international conference on user modele ( um ' 97 ) . ( http : / / zaphod . c . uni-sb . de / ~ um97 / ws5 . html ) - workshop on user model for information filter on the world wide web , hold in conjunction with the fifth international conference on user modele ( um ' 96 ) . ( http : / / www . c . su . oz . au / ~ bob / um96 - workshop . html ) - workshop on adaptive hypertext and hypermedium hold in conjunction with the fourth international conference on user modele ( um ' 94 ) . ( http : / / www . education . ut . edu . au / project / ah / ah-94 . html ) more information about adaptive hypertext system can be find at http : / / www . education . ut . edu . au / project / ah / workshop focus : there have be a significant amount of research in this area over the past five year ( see workshop theme for more information ) , but two recur issue have become increasingly important , and these will be the focus of this workshop : - standard : with the increase popularity of the world wide web and the grow market for flexible document delivery system , we need to develop standard for these system in order to encourage and facilitate their use more widely on the world wide web . in order to develop such standard it be first important to more clearly define the requirement for such system : what do it mean for a system to be a flexible , adaptive or dynamic hypertext system ? follow on from these requirement , which technique be important in flexible hypertext system ? finally , can we design a standard architecture for flexible hypertext system which can be re-use widely ? - evaluation : one of the key issue which arise from the first flexible hypertext workshop and which have be air again recently on the adaptive hypertext mail list be the importance of the evaluation of flexible hypertext system . in particular , since the main goal of these system be to maximise the suitability of a document to the user 's knowledge and need , evaluation be an essential aspect in the development of these system . however , very little research have be do which confirm the advantage of such system or which demonstrate how this may be do . workshop format : the workshop will run for one full day on 14 april . the number of attendee will be limit to 20 in order to encourage participation in workshop discussion . participation will be on the basis of submit position papers or by invitation . the workshop will include a limit number of paper presentation and general group discussion . group discussion will focus on the issue raise in the position papers , as well as on some focus question . a workshop dinner will also be organise to encourage informal discussion . the programme will include : welcome and introduction workshop session consist of : 1 to 2 position paper presentation ( 15-30 minute ) , and group discussion on the issue raise ( 30-60 minute ) close : plan for post-workshop activity conclusion and wrap - up workshop dinner the proceedings will be compile into a technical report after the workshop . position paper : we invite position papers describe demonstrate technique for improve the flexibility of hypertext document . we be particularly interest in papers which present innovative solution to provide flexible hypertext document , and those which address the need for build standard architecture and evaluation technique for such system . we be also interest in receive papers assess the benefit and downfall of provide flexible document , and papers of a more speculative nature which focus on the future of flexible hypertext system . those aspect of the paper which be important for discussion in the workshop should be clearly outline in the paper . paper should be 3 - 5 page long , and should be put up on the web . if you do n't have access to a web server , then some space will be allocate for you . electronic submission of the url address of the position paper will be prefer , although papers submit as ascius ( html ) or postscript will be accept . to submit a position paper , send the url address and an ascius version of the paper itself to : mariam @ mpce . mq . edu . au if this be not possible , please send hard copy to : maria milosavljevic csiro mathematical and information science lock bag 17 north ryde nsw 2113 australium important date : 27 february 1998 : submission of position papers 13 march 1998 : notification of acceptance or rejection 27 march 1998 : camera - ready copy due before the workshop , all attendee will be able to access the position papers from the web . we strongly encourage attendee to read these before the workshop . programme committee : maria milosavljevic ( chair ) , macquarie university , australium . peter brusilovsky , carnegie mellon university , usa . robert dale , macquarie university , australium . paul de bra , eindhoven university of technology , the netherland . kristina hook , swedish institute of computer science , sweden . judy kay , university of sydney , australium . jon oberlander , university of edinburgh , scotland . cecile pari , csiro mathematical and information science , australium . julita vassileva , university of saskatchewan , canada for more information : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - maria milosavljevic mri language technology group macquarie university sydney nsw 2113 australium email : mariam @ mpce . mq . edu . au tel : ( + 61 2 ) 9850 6345 fax : ( + 61 2 ) 9850 9529
