Subject: call : csdl - 4

call for abstracts the fourth conference on conceptual structure , discourse , and language ( csdl - 4 ) october 10-12 , 1998 emory university atlanta , georgium invite speaker for theme session on : - > functional and cognitive approach to the study of first language acquisition nancy budwig ( clark university ) michael tomasello ( max planck inst . for evolutionary anthropology ) third speaker - - tba - > grammatical construction : form and function joan bybee ( university of new mexico ) talmy givon ( university of oregon ) brian macwhinney ( carnegie mellon university ) a special poster session on - > discourse and computer - mediate communication will be hold during the conference sponsor by the georgium institute of technology ( georgium tech ) . a pre-conference symposium will be hold on friday even , october 9 , on - > primate communication . the follow invite speaker will discuss the research they be conduct at the yerk regional primate research center of emory university : harold gouzoule dario maestripierus susan savage - rumbaugh . what to submit we invite papers which consider functional principle of linguistic organization , and the interaction between language and cognition . priority will be give to papers which examine both the cognitive and discourse function of linguistic phenomenon . specific area of inquiry at the conference will include , but not be limit to : lexical and grammatical mean conversational practice form and function discourse analysis conceptual structure iconicity in language metaphor as a cognitive phenomenon language change and grammaticalization language acquisition social interaction and grammar sentence process we also invite abstract for the special poster session on discourse and computer - mediate communication ( cmc ) . specific area of inquiry at the session will include , but not be limit to : cmc as a force in linguistic and cognitive change specialize lexical and typographic register of cmc emergent communication norm in cmc discourse analysis of cmc discourse style in the virtual classroom and virtual community continuity between cmc and other discourse genre gender difference in cmc cmc and nonlinear think abstracts for 20 - minute papers or the special-topic poster session may be a maximum of one page . at the top of the abstract ( if by e-mail ) or on a separate page ( if on paper ) , please include title of paper author name ( s ) and affiliation ( s ) topic area ( from the list above or whatever seem appropriate ) e-mail address paper mail address submission deadline : abstract must be receive by march 16 , 1998 . where to submit : we strongly prefer e-mail submission . abstract for 20 - minute papers for the main session should be e-mail in ascius form to : < csdl - 4 @ learnlink . emory . edu > . abstract for the poster session on discourse and cmc should be e-mail in ascius form to : < wendy @ cc . gatech . edu > . please use " abstract " as your subject header . if you be submit more than one abstract , please e-mail each separately . if you prefer to use regular mail , send four copy of your abstract for the main conference for the poster session on session to : discourse and cmc to : csdl - 4 abstract poster session abstract program in linguistic c / o wendy newstetter callaway center 312s edutech institute emory university georgium inst . of technology atlanta , ga 30322 , usa atlanta , ga 30332-0280 , usa inquiries : for more information , visit the conference web site forthcome in february at < http : / / www . emory . edu / college / linguistics / csdl / > . e-mail inquiry : csdl - 4 @ learnlink . emory . edu chair of the organize committee : alan cienkus e-mail : lanac @ emory . edu phone : 404-727 - 2689
