Subject: dialog ' 98 - - computational linguistic

dialogue ' 98 international workshop on computational linguistics and its application kazan ( russium ) , may 31 - june 4 , 1998 dear colleague , we be glad to inform you about dialogue ' 98 , an international annual workshop on computational linguistics and its application , which will take place this year in may 31 - june 4 , near kazan ( tatarstan , russian federation ) . dialogue ' 98 should become fourth international workshop in row of dialogue ' 95 kazan dialogue ' 96 puschino dialogue ' 97 yasnaya polyana revive the tradition of the interdisciplinary dialogue seminar which be regular national event in the ussr during 70 - 80 . the workshop be an annual meet place for a dialogue : a ) between researcher from different field that be relate to computational linguistics ( linguist , computer and cognitive scientist , psychologist , researcher in the artificial intelligence ) ; b ) between researcher from the former ussr and from the international community . topic of interest include ( but be not limit to ) : * theoretical and cognitive linguistics * syntax , semantics , pragmatic and their interaction * system for natural language process * dialogue and speech act * problem of natioanl localization of natural language process * natural language front-end * natural language understand and model of object domain * voice interaction with computer * knowledge representation and process the number of participant be expect about 100 . every prospective attendee be require to submit a short research summary include relevant recent publication , regular and e-mail address , fax and phone number . participant who wish to present their work be additionally require to submit a poster ( 3 - 4 double-space page , 6 - 8 kb ) or a full paper ( not exceed 12 double - space page , 24 kb ) . please send submission preferably vium e-mail ( in plain ascii or uuencode winword file ) to the aldress of the program committee before march 1 , 1998 . submission in russian and english be equally accept . submission in russian should be accompany with a short summary in english ( approximately 100-200 word ) . we plan to organize select english - to - russian and russian - to - english translation of talk . address for all correspondence : e-mail : dialog98 @ bull . nmd . msu . ru snail mail : dialogue ' 98 russian instititue for artificial intelligence p . o . box 111 , moscow , 103001 , russium . important dates : deadline for submission : march 1 , 1998 notification of acceptance : march 20 , 1998 final paper due : march 30 , 1998 in the field of computational linguistics in russium the dialogue workshop become regular annual event which attract lead researcher from the former ussr as well as other country . we hope that dialogue ' 98 will continue this tradition . program committee : alexander s . narin ' yanus , program chair ( russian institute of artificial intelligence ) christian boitet ( grenoble university ) rai . g . bukharajev ( kazan state university ) ilya n . gorelov ( saratov state university ) alexander e . kibrik ( moscow state university ) igor a . mel ' chuk ( montreal university ) sergeus nirenburg ( new - mexico state university ) haldur oim ( tartu university ) dmitrij a . pospelov ( computer center of russian academy of science ) secretariate : natalya i . laufer , ( russian institute of artificial intelligence ) olga . v . fedorova , ( moscow state university ) organizing committee : rai . g . bukharajev ( kazan state university ) - the chairman djavdet sulejmanov ( kazan state university ) - the vice - chairman il 'd us hajbullin ( tatarstan academy of science ) nail ' zamov ( kazan state university ) information for contact in kazan : 420008 tatarstan , kazan kremlevskaja str . , 35 kazan state university , vmk faculty , djavdet sulejmanov email : djavdet . suleymanov @ ksu . ru tel . / fax : ( 843 - 2 ) 38-75 - 91 if you have question about the workshop , please send e-mail letter to the above-mention address . please , share this information letter with people you think it may concern .
