Subject: 2nd announcement isb2

2nd international symposium on bilingualism 14-17 april , 1999 university of newcastle upon tyne , uk keynote speakers michael clyne ( monash ) francoi grosjean ( neuchatel ) monica heller ( oise , toronto ) carol myer scotton ( south carolina ) colloquia 1 . cross - linguistic study of language acquisition ( marilyn m . vihman : m . vihman @ bangor . ac . uk and ginny mueller gathercole : v . c . gathercole @ bangor . ac . uk ) 2 . bilingual cognitive process ( david green : ucjtdg @ ucl . ac . uk ) 3 . input in bilingual acquisition ( annick de houwer : vhouwer @ uium . ua . ac . be and elizabeth lanza : elizabeth . lanza @ ilf . uio . no ) 4 . neurolinguistic and acquire communication disorder in bilingual ( franco fabbro and nick miller : nichola . miller @ ncl . ac . uk ) 5 . sign bilingualism ( clare gallaway : gallaway @ fs1 . ed . man . ac . uk ) 6 . grammar and codeswitch ( jeanine treffer - daller : j-treffersdaller @ wpg . uwe . ac . uk , ad backus : backus @ ling . ucsd . edu and jacomine nortier : jacomine . nortier @ let . ruu . nl ) 7 . sociolinguistic of bilingual interaction ( ben rampton : ben . rampton @ tvu . ac . uk , mukul saxena : m . saxena @ ucrysj . ac . uk and li weus : lus . weus @ ncl . ac . uk ) 8 . trilingualism and trilingual ( charlotte hoffman : c . hoffman @ mod . lang . salford . ac . uk ) round - table bilingualism and communication disorder : implication for speech & language therapy ( chair : deirdre martin : martinm @ edusrv1 . bham . ac . uk ) invitation to participants submission be invite for oral or poster presentation , on all aspect of bilingualism . paper which be base on empirical research and which seek to forge new link between establish field ( e . g . linguistics , psychology , speech & language pathology , sociology , and education ) or to develop new sub-field be particularly welcome . contributor to the colloquium and round-table should contact the organiser informally as indicate above . all submission will be peer-review , anonymously , and select on the grounds of originality , clarity , and significance of finding and conclusion . submission of abstracts each submission should include : 1 ) a cover sheet contain ( a ) the author ( s ) name ( s ) ; ( b ) address ( include telephone number , e-mail and fax , if available ) ; ( c ) affiliation ; ( d ) the title of the presentation ; ( e ) the category of the submission ( oral presentation at parallel session or poster presentation ) ; and ( f ) equipment require for presentation ; and 2 ) three copy of an abstract of no more than 500 word . only hard-copy be consider ( no e-mail please ) . abstract should be send , by 31 august , 1998 , to : mr gillian cavagan , isb organise committee , department of speech , university of newcastle upon tyne , ne1 7ru , uk , fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 191 222 6518 , from whom further detail may also be obatine ( e - mail : gillian . cavagan @ newcastle . ac . uk ) . important date : 31 january , 1998 : 2nd announcement 30 august , 1998 : deadline for submission of abstract 31 october , 1998 : notice of acceptance 1 january , 1999 : close date for registration preparations for presentation each oral presentation should not exceed 20 minute . it will be follow by 5 minute discussion . while we cannot predict the size of the audience in parallel session at this stage , you be ask to prepare at least 50 copy of any material you wish to hand out in support of your presentation . audio - visual material will need to be suitable for use in a large lecture theatre . ohp will be available in all room . other equipment can be arrange by advance write request . video tape should be in pal system . we may ask some of the presenter to submit a full write copy of their paper in advance for sign language translation . instruction on poster presentation will be send to you at a later date .
