Subject: 6th international symposium on social communication - - cuba

sixth international symposium on social communication santiago de cuba january 25-28 , 1999 the apply linguistic center of ministry of science , technology and environment in santiago de cuba , sponsor by the linguist association of cuba , the santiago de cuba higher institute for the medical science and the university of oriente , be please to announce the sixth international symposium on social communication to be hold in santiago de cuba , january 25-28 , 1999 . this international event will focus on social communication process from the point of view of apply linguistic , computational linguistic , cybernetic , medicine and the mass medium . paper and poster will be discuss at workshop within the framework of the follow discipline : 1 . apply linguistic spanish and foreign language teach , translation , scientific terminology , sociolinguistic , psycholinguistic , phonetics . paper relate to ethnology , folklore and other aspect of social communication will also be admit under this field . international workshop : lexicological and lexicographic research . 2 . computational linguistic this symposium will discuss work on software design relate to : lexicological , lexicographic and grammatical research . the compilation of automate monolingual , bilingual and phraseological dictionary . other use of computational linguistic . international workshop : automatic tag of textual corpus . 3 . voice process artificial intelligence apply to voice analysis , synthesis and recognition . signal process . artificial intelligence . different type of hardware and software and their use in the devise and develop of voice-process equipment . voice - process equipment . their use in informatics , acoustic analysis , and as aid for the hear and sight impair . voice - process research relate to " cry analysis " . 4 . medical specialty relate to pathological process which use speech and voice analysis . presentation on research result show the effect of the use of word and communication for the treatment of various illness . interdisciplinary treatment of logophoniatric patient with vocal tract disorder . result of investigation relate to diagnosis of central nervous system disease through the cry analysis method . international workshop : prespeech development and language acquisition . 5 . mass medium language in the mass media . other aspects of interest santiago de cuba , locate at some 900 km from havana , be cuba 's second largest city due to its economic , cultural and social importance . santiago be also the capital of the province with the same name . surround by the green mountain of the sierra maestra range and the caribbean sea , santiago be unique in its geography and beautiful landscape . it surroundings make the city one of the most important touristic attraction on the entire island . the organize committee , in coordination with the city 's tourist agency will offer visit delegate a host of option allow participant to enjoy the city 's beauty and charm . important reminders june 30 , 1998 : submission of summary september 1th , 1998 : deadline for paper and report january 25-28 1999 : sixth international symposium all mail or enquiry should be address to : dr . eloina miyare bermudez secretarium ejecutiva comite organizador apartado postal 4067 . vista alegre santiago de cuba 4 , cuba , 90400 telefono : ( 53-226 ) 42760 , ( 53-226 ) 41081 fax : ( 53-226 ) 41579 e - mail : leonel @ lingaplus . cige . inf . cu home page : http : / / wwwsetus . c . utwente . nl / parlevink / cuba . also at : http : / / www . univ-tlse 2 . fr / gril / cuba . html official language : spanish and english . inscription fee : $ 130 . 0 usd companion $ 70 . 0 usd
