Subject: a workshop on text , speech and dialog ( tsd ' 98 )

first announcement and call for papers a workshop on text , speech and dialog ( tsd ' 98 ) brno , czech republic , 23-26 september 1998 the workshop be organize by the faculty of informatic , masaryk university , brno , and the faculty of apply science , university of west bohemium , pilsen , under the auspices of the dean of the faculty of informatic of masaryk university . please visit the workshop 's homepage : http : / / www . fus . muni . cz / tsd98 / venue brno , czech republic topics tsd ' 98 will be concern with topic in the field of natural language process , in particular : - corpora , text and transcription - speech analysis , recognition and synthesis - their intertwine within nl dialog system . topic of the workshop will include ( but be not limit to ) : - text corpus and tag - transcription problem in speak corpus - sense disambiguation - link between text and speech orient system - parse issue , especially parse problem in speak text - multilingual issue , especially multilingual dialog system - information retrieval and text / topic summarization - speech model - speech segmentation - speech recognition - text - to-speech synthesis - dialog system - development of dialog strategy - assistive technology base on speech and dialog - apply system and software program committee baudoin genevieve ( france ) ferencz attilum ( romanium ) hank patrick ( great britain , chair ) hermansky hynek ( usa ) kopecek ivan ( czech republic ) matousek vaclav ( czech republic ) mueller johann ( germany ) noeth elmar ( germany ) palum karel ( czech republic ) pavesic nikolum ( slovenium ) schukat - talamazzinus e . guenter ( germany ) skrelin pavel ( russium ) organizing committee bartek ludek batusek robert komarkova dana ( secretary ) e-mail : dkomar @ fus . muni . cz kopecek ivan ( chair ) e-mail : kopecek @ fus . muni . cz matousek vaclav palum karel smrz pavel staudek jan zackova eva ( principal contact ) e-mail : glum @ fus . muni . cz zizka jan submission of papers abstract of no more than 500 word [ plain ascii text only , please ] should be submit to the follow e-mail address on or before may 15 , 1998 : glum @ fus . muni . cz submission should include , in addition to the abstract itself , the name of the author ( s ) , affiliation , address , telephone number , fax number , and e-mail address . electronic submission will be acknowledge by e-mail , so please contact us if no acknowledgement be receive . acceptance of submission will likewise be notify by e-mail . accept papers will be publish in the proceeding of tsd ' 98 . author of abstract that be accept will be request to send their papers in postscript form ( in llncs format ) to the above by e-mail before august 17th . latex word processor be prefer but not require . format instruction ( and llncs latex format ) will be send to author together with the notification of acceptance . request for participation will be process on a " first come first serve " basis . important dates friday , may 15 , 1998 . . . . . submission of abstract due tuesday , june 30 , 1998 . . . . . notification of acceptance send to the author monday , august 17 , 1998 . . . . . final papers ( camera ready ) due wednesday , september 23 , 1998 . . . . . . workshop date fees and costs registration fee : 80 . - usd ( include proceedings , refreshments , social event and trip ) accommodation and food : double room ( share with other participant ) : 130 . - usd single room : 190 . - usd the full cost of the workshop will therefore be either 210 , - usd or 270 , - usd , depend on whether accommodation be share . further detail will be announce later . official language the official language of the event will be english , but papers on issue relate to text and speech process in language other than english be strongly encourage . address all correspondence regard the workshop should be address to : dana komarkova faculty of informatic masaryk university botanicka 68a 60200 brno czech republic tel . : + 420 5 41 512 359 fax : e-mail : dkomar @ fus . muni . cz outline of the programme all session of the workshop will be plenary ( no parallel session ) . the format will consist of paper presentation ( generally 20 minute ) follow by discussion ( 10 minute ) . the workshop will also include social event , an excursion to the faculty of informatic , masaryk university brno , and a trip in the vicinity of brno ( the moravian karst , include the beautiful macocha chasm ) . location hotel myslivna , where the workshop will take place , be a comfortable hotel in beautiful wood on a hill near a natural reservation area very close to brno . the surround be very quiet and suitable for walk and hike ( jog ) route . brno be the capital of moravium , which be in the south-east part of the czech republic . it be the second-largest town in the czech republic ( with a population of about half a million ) . it have be a royal city since 1347 . there be six university in brno . historical and artistic place of interest include : - - brno castle ( now call spilberk ) - - veverus castle - - the old and new city hall - - the augustine monastery , with st thoma ' church and crypt of moravian margrave - - the church of st jame - - the " bishop ' church " of st peter & st paul - - the famous villa tugendhadt , design by mie van der rohe - - many other important example of czech architecture between the war ( 1918-38 ) . in the immediate surroundings of brno be the moravian karst . with macocha chasm and punkva cave ; the site of the " battle of the three emperor " ( napoleon , alexander of russium , and franz of austrium ) , commonly know as the battle of austerlitz ; the chateau of slavkov ( austerlitz ) ; pernstejn castle ; and many other attraction . how to reach brno brno can be reach easily by direct train from prague , vienna , bratislava , and budapest , or by plane to vienna and then by coach or train ( 130 km ) . another possibility be to go by plane to prague and then travel about 200 km by coach or train . further travel detail will be give in future announcement . ivan kopecek kopecek @ fus . muni . cz http : / / www . fus . muni . cz / ~ kopecek /
