Subject: ecai-98 # 6 : call for young researcher papers

ecai ' 98 august 23-28 1998 brighton uk call for young researcher papers http : / / www . cog . susx . ac . uk / ecai98 / youngrescall . html the ecai-98 programme committee be please to announce a special programme of short papers for young researcher . important dates - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 6 mar 1998 deadline for abstract 11 mar 1998 deadline for papers 15 apr 1998 notification of acceptance 15 may 1998 camera - ready copy of papers 26-28 aug 1998 student programme at ecai-98 the aim be to encourage younger ai researcher to attend ecai-98 and to present their on-go work , in the form of short ( 2 page ) papers , which will appear in the conference proceedings . a short paper may either report on the innovative point of work in progress , or on a particular result of special interest . the call be open to researcher who satisfy at least one of the follow criterion on 11 march 1998 : - they be under 28 year old - they be currently study for a phd or other degree qualification in ai ( or a relate topic ) - they receive a phd in ai ( or a relate topic ) within the past two year . submission be invite on original and previously unpublish research in all aspect of ai , include , but not limit to : abduction , temporal , causal reason , and diagnosis ; automate reason ; application and enable technology ; belief revision and nonmonotonic reason ; case - base reason ; cognitive model and philosophical foundation ; computational linguistic ; constraint - base reason and constraint program ; distribute ai and multiagent system ; fuzzy logic ; knowledge acquisition ; knowledge representation ; logic program , and theorem prove ; machine learn , knowledge discovery and data mine ; natural language and intelligent user interface ; neural network in ai ; plan , schedule , and reason about action ; probabilistic network ; qualitative preference and decision in ai ; qualitative and spatial reason ; reason under uncertainty ; robotic , vision , and signal understand ; search and meta - heuristic for ai ; verification , validation and test of knowledge - base system . submission should be two page long use the format describe on the ecai-98 style guide web page : http : / / www . cog . susx . ac . uk / ecai98 / style . html a latex style file be available on the website ( or on request . to ecai98 @ cog . susx . ac . uk ) . accept papers will be require to conform more strictly to the publisher ' format requirement , which will be broadly in line with the present format guideline . submission procedure submission be a two stage process , similar to the process for long papers . an electronic abstract should be send to ecai98 @ irit . fr by 6 march 1998 . this summary should include the title , author , contact address and abstract for the paper , plus keyword draw from the above list ( plus other keyword if appropriate ) . a web-base summary submission form be available to make this easier . this summary information should also be include with the paper itself , on a separate sheet of paper . submission of the paper be in hard copy form only , electronic submission will not be accept . four copy of the paper ( each include the summary sheet ) , should be send by post to the ecai-98 programme chair , henrus prade , at the address below . the title page should include a statement indicate which of the above eligibility criterion the author satisfy and that the paper have not be submit elsewhere . the deadline for receipt of papers be 11 march 1998 . paper receive after this date will not be review . address for submission - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - henrus prade , ecai-98 programme chair irit universite paul sabatier 118 route de narbonne 31062 toulouse cedex 4 france email : henrus . prade @ irit . fr tel : + 33 ( 0 ) 561 55 65 79 fax : + 33 ( 0 ) 561 55 62 39 multiple submission policy ecai-98 will not accept any paper which at the time of submission be under review for , or have already be publish or accept for publication in a journal or another conference . author be also expect not to submit their papers elsewhere during the review period . these restriction apply only to journal and conference and not to workshop or similar specialise meeting with limit audience . the title page should include a statement that the paper be not under review or accept for publication in another conference or journal . however , if a young researcher have already submit a regular paper to ecai-98 , a new submission on the same topic in the form of a short paper be permit provide that the author declare it on submission . if the regular paper be accept , the short paper will be consider to have be withdraw . however such a double submission be not encourage . the review process the short papers will be review under the control of the ecai-98 program committee under the chairmanship of the ecai-98 programme chair . the ecai-98 programme chair have final authority over the review process and all decision relate to acceptance of papers . accept papers will be allocate 15 minute for oral presentation and 2 page in the official ecai-98 proceedings . note : as be usual at ecai conference , student will be able to register for the conference at a significantly reduce and subsidise rate . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ecai-98 secretariat tel : + 44 ( 0 ) 1273 678448 centre for advance software application fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 1273 671320 university of sussex email : ecai98 @ cog . susx . ac . uk brighton , bn1 9qh , uk url : http : / / www . cog . susx . ac . uk / ecai98 ecai-98 be organise by the european coordinate committee for artificial intelligence ( eccai ) and host by the university of brighton and sussex on behalf of aisb . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
