Subject: politeness theory

call for papers politeness theory and language in the mass media this be a call for papers that explore linguistic politeness and social interaction in the mass media . in the introduction to the second edition of politeness , brown and levinson write , " we believe we happen to have stumble on an area where many orthogonal aspect of social life converge in a set of crucial preoccupation in social interaction . " brown and levinson state that politeness be at the heart of those preoccupation . while there have be numerous study of linguistic politeness since brown and levinson 's original paper , there have be little attention pay to politeness theory in discussion of language in the mass media . we believe that the mass media provide a unique yet ubiquitous arena through which to explore linguistic politeness because of the often ambiguous nature of social interaction in the mass media . it be our interest in the nature of social interaction in the mass media that provide the impetus for this book project . we also believe there be a need for theory of media discourse base on sociolinguistic perspective . we be seek original essay to include in a book volume that examine aspect of linguistic politeness base on datum collect from the mass media . we would especially like to encourage submission base on datum from language other than english . the intend audience of the book will be undergraduate , graduate student , and scholar in the area of sociolinguistic , anthropological linguistics , linguistic pragmatic , ethnography of communication , sociology and communication . please forward an indication of interest and a one-page abstract of the propose contribution by april 30 , 1998 to : prof . trous carleton 1200 holloway drive , department of english , san francisco state university , san francisco , ca 94132 , e-mail : trous @ sfsu . edu or prof . robin queen , english department , kent state university , kent , oh 44242-0001 , e-mail : rqueen @ ken . edu . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - robin m . queen english department kent state university kent , oh 44242-0001 tel : 330-672 - 2219
