Subject: cfp : workshop " intelligent information integration " during ecai ' 98

please forward this message to colleague who may be interest . we apologise if you receive multiple copy . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - call for papers international and interdisciplinary workshop " intelligent information integration " http : / / www . tzus . org / grp / i3 / ws-ecaus 98 25 august 1998 during the european conference on artificial intelligence ( ecai ' 98 ) , brighton centre , brighton , uk submission deadline : 27 march 1998 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - technical description - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - due to intranet and internet , more and more information source become technically available . these include knowledge base , datum base , and semi-structure datum ( e . g . html page ) . an increase number of user now either wish to integrate these different information source or to have a uniform view of these . as a consequence , the integration of heterogeneous information source have become a field of investigation of grow importance . the schematic and semantic heterogeneity be one of the difficulty in the integration of heterogeneous knowledge and datum base . normally , the information in every information source be store with regards to their user ' requirement ( e . g . an application ) , disregard access from other site or their integration . semantically similar information thus may be store with different structure ( e . g . a name may be store either as one string or as two string split into first name and last name ) and different information representation ( e . g . rank value can be represent either as number or as symbol ) . there be several distinct research and development area explicitly or implicitly address semantic heterogeneity . most approach reconcile the semantic conflict implicitly . federate database , for example , integrate local database into one ( virtual ) global database while at the same time preserve the autonomy of each local database . in loosely-couple system like multi-database query language be extend to access different information system . however , they do not help the user with the heterogeneity problem . other group want to exchange knowledge and datum vium standard ( e . g . kif , step , etc ) , but the different semantics of the standard and the information source have to be correlate . other approach take the semantics of knowledge or datum more closely into account and represent the semantics explicitly . in the darpa " intelligent information integration " initiative approach be develop which represent the mean in ontology or meta datum in context . the ontology may be use to reconcile the conflict or act as a global domain specification . however , there be still a great number of discipline whose subtask be at least the integration of information . although each research and development community have its own view of the integration of information source the basic problem concern for example the semantic and schematic heterogeneity remain the same . it be an interest aspect that different group tackle the problem in different way . it be the aim of this workshop to bring together these heterogeneous group in order to create a forum where the participant can compare their individual approach . theme - - - - the interdisciplinary workshop of " intelligent information integration " cover all topic relate to the integration of heterogeneous datum , information and knowledge source . the workshop will bring together researcher , developer , and practitioner and discuss further research and development direction in intelligent integration of information . topic of interest include , but be not limit to : - wrapper and mediator - integration approach use ontology / context - design principle for ontology use for integration - language for information integration - advance integration architecture - semantic , schematic , vocabulary , datum heterogeneity - information source in internet , intranet - classification scheme ( for mediator , semantic heterogeneity , etc . ) - tool for support information integration - review and evaluation of exist integration approach - practical experience with integration approach - theoretical perspective of information integration - ontology map , ontology algebra and context logic - intelligent information retrieval - security aspect - change management - federate database and multi-database - integration of uncertain or inaccurate source submission procedure - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - author be invite to submit original research contribution or experience report in english . submit papers must be unpublish and substantially different from papers under review . paper that have be or will be present at small workshop / symposium whose proceedings be available only to the attendee may be submit . paper should be double-space and no longer than 12 page . as text format only latex or microsoft word 6 . 0 ( or higher ) be accept . paper should be send electronically not later than march 27 . 1998 to holger wache < wache @ tzus . org > author that cannot submit paper electronically should please send 5 hard-copy to the follow address : holger wache bereich intelligente systeme technologie - zentrum informatik ( tzi ) - fb3 universitaet breman postfach 330440 d-28334 breman germany paper receive after the deadline or not conform to the submission format will be reject without review . paper will be select on the basis of review of full paper contribution . we propose to publish the contribution in public report series of university of breman ( " lilum reihe " ) and vium www . the format guideline for the final paper version will be publish at this place . final camera-ready copy of accept papers will be due by june 1 1998 . please note , we be prepare a special issue in a journal concern the workshop topic . select papers will be invite to contribute a revise and extend version in that special issue . important date - - - - - - - - - - - - - - deadline for papers : march 27 , 1998 notification of acceptance : may 1 , 1998 camera - ready copy of papers : june 1 , 1998 workshop on ecai-98 : august 25 , 1998 organize committee - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this workshop will be organize by the follow people : o oliver duschka o dieter fensel o maurizio lenzerinus o marie - christine rousset o holger wache ( contact ) program committee - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - o franz baader ( rwth aachen , germany ) , o stefan conrad ( university of magdeburg , germany ) , o adam faquar ( stanford university , usa ) , o enrico franconus ( irst , italy ) , o jame hendler ( university of maryland , usa ) , o manfr jeusfeld ( kub tilburg university , the netherland ) , o craig a . knoblock ( university of southern californium , usa ) , o alon y . levy ( university of washington , usa ) , o eduardo mena ( university of the basque country , spain ) , o robert meersman ( vrije universiteit brussel , belgium ) , o werner nutt ( hebrew university of jerusalem , israel ) , o mike papazoglou ( kub tilburg university , the netherland ) , o john sowa ( binghamton university , usa )
