Subject: non - lexical semantic

apology for multiple copy final call for papers for the second conference on ( preferably ) non-lexical semantics the conference will be host by the university of pari 7 ( france ) , and will take place in may 28-30 , 1998 there will be three one hour talk by invite speaker ( e . zimmermann , s . tsohatzidi and x . ) and the rest of the talk will be contribute papers choose by the program committee on selection basis . submission of abstract ( in english or in french ) for 30 - minute contribute talk ( with 10 additional minute for discussion ) on any topic in the semantic analysis of natural language , with strong preference for non-lexical semantics , be welcome . author should submit 5 copy of ( so call " anonymous " ) abstract , no more than two page ( but not significantly less than 2 page ) long . data allow us to identify and contact the author ( or author ) should be give separately . e - mail submission will be accept ( only when in latex , word or ps ) . in this case author shoud send a title page with author ' name , etc . in addition to the anonymous two page abstract . abstract deadline : march 17 , 1998 . send abstract to : conference de semantique c / o r . zuber universite pari 7 ufr linguistique case 7003 2 place jussieu 75251 pari cedex 5 , france the e-mail address to which the abstract should be send : rz @ ccr . jussieu . fr . this be also the e-mail address for inquiry . the program of the conference will be complete around the 17th of april at which time conference information will be make available . for organizational reason we would like to be able to estimate the number of submission and possible participant well in advance . for this reason we invite any person which would like to submit an abstract or to attend the conference to let us know as soon as possible ( by e-mail ) . program committee : r . zuber - chair ( cnrs , pari ) , f . corblin ( university of renn ) , b . laca ( university of strasbourg ) , d . lacombe , ( university of pari 7 ) , f . recanatus ( cnrs , pari ) , d . wilson ( crea , pari and university college , london )
