Subject: sociolinguistic symposium

reminder : you can still register ( at the standard reat of 140 pound sterl until february 28 , thereafter 160 pound ) for ' ss12 ' - the 12th ( uk ) sociolinguistics symposium . this be the sociolympics - at least on the european side of the atlantic ! ' ss12 ' will be hold at the institute of education university of london 20 bedford way london wc1h oal uk from thursday 26th march ( mid-day ) to saturday 28th march ( mid-day ) 1998 programme plenary colloquium paper in parallel session short ' work in progress ' report poster presentation publisher display social event british sign language interpretation available to participant who request this in advance . academic organise committee professor jenny cheshire , queen mary & westfield college , university of london ; professor jennifer coate , roehampton institute london ; dr penelope gardner - chloro , birkbeck college , university of london ; dr ben rampton & celium robert , thame valley university ; euan reid , institute of education , university of london . ; professor brian street , king 's college , university of london . plenaries professor jan blommaert ( university of antwerp / international pragmatic association ) : reconstruct the sociolinguistic image of africa : grassroot write in shaba , congo . professor debbie cameron ( university of strathclyde , glasgow ) , good to talk ? the discourse and practice of communication skill . professor penny eckert ( stanford university ) variation , style & identity . professor susan gal ( university of chicago ) language ideology and linguistic boundary : the semiotic of differentiation . colloquia 1 . speech representation & institutional discourse convenor : stef slembrouck , dept of english , university of gent , belgium & mike baynham , centre for language & literacy , university of technology , sydney this colloquium aim to bring together concern with institutional discourse and an interest in discourse representation phenomenon ( ' report speech ' ) . it focus will be on how institutional member ( client , professional and novice ) represent , incorporate and appropriate the discourse ( ' voice ' ) of ' the other ' in their own discourse . this theme be intend to reflect the grow body of research into practice of discourse representation in a range of site ( media , legal , educational , social work ) . in these site , such practice be often constitutive of institutional process and affect institutional outcome . the colloquium theme also tie in with the current interest ( within pragmatic , discourse analysis , etc . ) in re-contextualisation and process of ( re ) formulation . contributor include : malcolm coulthard , janet maybin , geert jacob , titus ensink , greg myer , graham hall , srikant sarangus & akira satoh , 2 . construct the university : problematize the notion of language in academic discourse . convenor : cary jone & brian street , school of education , king 's college , university of london the aim of this colloquium be to explore issue surround academic literacy and the genre of faculty feedback , with particular reference to british and international student in higher education . rather than focus on study skill or academic socialisation , the dominant discourse in this field , the session will address from a number of perspective the model of academic literacy and discourse , which problematise the vary literacy practice involve in the constitution of ' the university ' . in particular the focus will be on the gap between student and faculty expectation of academic write process and the conceptualisation and representation of ' language ' embed in them . contributor will include , in addition to the convenor , fiona english , monika hermerschmidt , mary lea , mary scott , joan turner & theresa lilli . 3 . language , gender & sexuality convenor : debbie cameron ( university of strathclyde ) this colloquium be a response to the rapid development of sociolinguistic work in which sexuality or sexual identity be a key social variable . among the question we hope to reflect on , in papers , response to papers and open discussion , be : be there and should there be a distinctive gay / lesbian sociolinguistic ? how should we theorise the relationship between sexuality and gender ? have sociolinguist talk too little about heterosexuality ? how do sociolinguist position themselve with regard to exist theory of sexual identity / practice , especially feminist theory and queer theory ? contributor : kathryn remlinger , paul mcilvenny , joanne winter . 4 . oral narrative across context & culture convenor : alexandra georgakopoulou , dept . of byzantyne and modern greek study , king 's college , university of london & shoshana blum - kulka , department of communication , hebrew university , jerusalem , israel . the goal of the colloquium be to bring together ethnographic , discourse analytical and interactional sociolinguistic perspective to discuss the role of context and culture in the discursive shape of oral narrative mode and function . the papers present will attempt to combine micro-level with macro-level analytic concern , and their scope will cover a wide range of oral narrative mode ( e . g . conversational story , life history , mediate discourse narrative , family dinner narrative ) in different community . paper will be present by catherine snow , shoshana blum - kulka , alexandra georgakopoulou , esther schelly - newman and tamar katriel . the discussant of the presentation will include johanna thornborrow , maria sifianou , mike baynham and paddy scannell . 5 . disability , language & social identity convenor : graham h . turner , deaf study group , department of education study , university of central lancashire , preston this interdisciplinary colloquium set out to address question raise by claim about ' deaf identity ' - in the sense of an identity shape by distinct linguistic and cultural form - and other disable identity , by focus upon the role of language in discourse practice that construct and reflect such identity . doe the language currently use by and about disable people ( include deaf people ) sustain the distinction , and what part do language play in any change be witness ? in spite of the existence of theoretical deaf and disability literature , relatively little have to date emerge by way of empirical account of language choice in either personal or institutional discourse , and there have be little theorization of language practice in such context . while sociolinguist ' discussion of ( for instance ) ethnicity move on from the debate about group-membership - as-acquire - disposition versus group-membership - as-situate - performance , there remains little exploration of even these two notion in relation to language and disability . the purpose of this colloquium be to assess the state of knowledge in this field and to begin to explore ( a ) the role of disable people in effect language change , ( b ) the extent to which communicative practice be define in relation to disable identity , ( c ) what ( if any ) pattern emerge from the cross-reference of different group in this regard and ( d ) what kind of research could tell us more about the role of language in construct and perform disability . within this session ( which will have british sign language / english interpretation ) four 25 - minute papers will be follow by short independent response from two discussant and an open workshop session for exploration of issue arise . contributor include : jenny corbett , mairian corker , susan gregory , & kyra pollitt . 6 . computer - mediate communication , language and society convenor : dr . simeon j . yate , discipline of sociology , faculty of social science , open university . the colloquium will cover a range of sociolinguistic topic relate to the use of computer - mediate communication ( cmc ) in contemporary society . cmc system range from the personal form of electronic mail and internet-relay chat , through on-line form of audio and video conference , to the world wide web and other digital media format . the aim of the colloquium be to explore , through the discussion of present papers , the connection between language use , cmc and key aspect of contemporary society , such as : globalisation , work , politics , identity , gender and media genre . this colloquium represent a development of the session on the socio-linguistic of computer - mediate communication ( cmc ) hold at ss11 , and will provide an opportunity for researcher in this field to present and discuss current theory and finding . the focus of the session will be upon the relationship between contemporary society , contemporary language use and the various form of cmc . speaker will include : simeon j . yate , susan herr , john paolillo , lynn cherny , lorenzo mondada , robert fouser , zazie todd , p . nayar & jacqueline johnson lambiase . . 7 . maintain indigenous language , with special reference to latin america - state plan v grass - root initiative : convenor : jane freeland ( univ of portsmouth ) & rosaleen howard - malverde ( univ of liverpool ) latin american government be give increase attention to the maintenance of indigenous langauge , mainly through formal education . however , outcome frequently clash with , be even destructive of , language maintenance strategy develop by organise indigenous group . this workshop will explore the relationship between these different approach , through a series of brief case study ( pre-circulate ) , but above all through extensive discussionof the language plan issue raise by this clash . speaker will include : kendall king , sheilum aikman , serafin coronel - molina , tim marr & eliseo canulef m . 8 . language & multimodality convenor : prof . gunther kress , culture communication and society ( ccs ) group , institute of education , london text in many domain of public communication be become more intensely multimodal : that be , they make a deliberate use of the visual as well as the write ( where before that may have be an incidental matter ) for overt purpose of communication . social difference therefore find expression not only in the linguistic mode whether write or speak ( as in generic or discursive difference , eg ) but in other mode . different combination , different emphasis of mode may respond to different social purpose , so that even at this level there be a new issue of what the consequence be for language . if in a multimodal text some information be carry visually and some verbally - where before it be all carry verbally - it follow that language will play a different role in the overtly multus modal text than it do in the formerly ( at least ostensibly ) monomodal text . other participant : theo van leeuwen , david graddol , roz ivanic & fiona ormerod , radan martinec , carey jewitt , and judy delin . 9 . teach & learn bilingually in post - colonial context convenor : marilyn martin - jone , university of lancaster & peter martin , universitus bruneus darussalam . over the last decade , there have be an increase amount of research into language practice in school and classroom in a number of post-colonial context . in each of these multililngual context , a former colonial language be still use as a medium of instruction . the aim of this colloquium be to bring together researcher work in different multilingual site and to enable them to compare insight from research which combine detail analysis of bilingual classroom discourse with ethnographic observation . our specific objective be ( 1 ) to compare the way in which teacher and learner in these setting accomplish lesson in two language ; ( 2 ) to identify commonality and difference in bilingual discourse practice observe and analyse in different institutional site ; ( 3 ) to discuss the implication of these commonality and difference . contributor include : casimir rubagumya , grace bunyus & nancy hornberger , angel lin & jo arthur , in addition to the convenor . 10 . language play & the construction of mean among work class teenager in hong kong . convenor : angel lin , city university of hong kong . other contributor will include isaac lbe , michelle kwan , tit - wing lo & kevin chu , with chri candlin as discussant . 11 . there will also be a postgraduate workshop , convene by kristina bennert , of university college , cardiff . bennert @ cardiff . ac . uk . further details on programme by post : the full provisional programme be now be send by post to people as they register , along with local travel detail , and hotel book arrangement . on the internet : our website be be update regularly until the event itself , and you can find us at : http : / / www . ioe . ac . uk / cc / ss12 papers as well as the colloquium , the programme include c60 35 - minute ' paper ' - where presenter be be encourage to speak for no more than c20 minute , leave c15 minute for question and discussion , c20 15 minute ' report ' on work in progress ) , and c12 ' poster ' . the criterion for selection be : originality , significance , estimate contribution to conceptual development of the field , lucidity . all submission , include those for the colloquium , be subject to anonymous review by member of the committee during september and october 1997 , with the help of colloquium convenor where appropriate . in addition to those speak in the colloquium , presenter will include david barton , stellum bortonus - ricardo , jennifer coate , jenny cheshire , gemma moss , anne pauwel , mark sebba , alison sealey . costs standard symposium fee - 140 pound sterl leat symposium fee - 160 pound sterl ( for booking receive after february 27 , 1998 ) student / unwage symposium fee - 95 pound , ( on production of satisfactory evidence of status ) day symposium fee ( only available after the standard book period end on february 27 , 1998 , and if place be leave ) . registration the form which follow be only about registration for the symposium itself , administer by the institute of education 's conference office : email c . bird @ ioe . ac . uk , not , please not , the sender of this message ! ( for accommodation see note at end . ) payment of the appropriate symposium fee be obligatory , and will entitle you to all document for the meet ( programme , abstract booklet , participant list ) , and to a badge give admission to session , tea / coffee etc at break , and buffet lunch . conference registration form : ( print this off and fax or mail it , or use the electronic version on our website - address of this at the end of the posting ) please complete the follow as you would like it to appear on the participant ' list - only one person on each form ] : your title : ( mr / ms / dr / prof / . . . . . ) your family name : your other name ( s ) : your institution & departmental address : phone and fax number for communication ( say if work or private ) : your email number : address for correspondence if different from your institution : please reserve a conference place for me : date of book . . . . . either for the whole meet or @ standard rate of 140 pound or @ late rate of 160 pound or for the follow half-day thursday 26 / 3 @ 45 pound friday 27 / 3 be @ 45 " friday 27 / 3 pm @ 45 " saturday 28 / 3 @ 45 " complete registration form , along with sterl cheque ( non-sterl cheque or bank transfer add 10 % please ) payable to ' institute of education - ss12 ' , should be send to the conference office ( ss12 ) , institute of education , 20 bedford way , london wc1h 0al , uk . book enquiry can be make to the conference officer there , cathy bird ( c . bird @ ioe . ac . uk ) tel : + 44 . 171 . 612 . 6017 . . . . fax : + 44 . 171 . 612 . 6402 . accommodation booking should be make independently , or through hotelscene , a reservation service offer discount accommodation in a range of hotel etc within a few minute walk from the institute of education in the bloomsbury district of west central london . hotelscene information will be normally only send to you on receipt of your registration form , but can be send earlier if you need it - on request to the conference office . single room and breakfast price will be from about 20 pound per night in a student hall of residence [ not many of these leave now ] , to about \ 163100 per night in a first class hotel - less per head in double room . website address for update on ss12 : http : / / www . ioe . ac . uk / cc / ss12 . euan reid culture , communication and society institute of education university of london 20 bedford way london wc1h 0al tel : + 44 171 612 6524 / fax : + 44 171 612 6177
