Subject: cfp : endanger language - edinburgh , 25-27 sept 98

endanger language - what role for the the specialist ? - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - edinburgh , scotland - 25-27 september 1998 call for papers the workshop will provide a forum for researcher and activist work for the maintenance of indigenous language that face an uncertain future . conference scope and aims in recent year , number of support organization have establish themselve , all aim to mobilize research effort , popular opinion and money in defence of decline language . the question be often raise of how these outsider can really help the cause that they have identify . language community must have inner strength in order to survive , or at least the will and the means to go on use their traditional tongue . outside organization , however well-mean , cannot supply such quality directly . some ask whether the organization even have the right to try to interfere . this conference , the second organize by the foundation for endanger language , be seek answer to one part of this question . how can language specialist , whether professional linguist , educator , media professional or whoever , actually contribute to language maintenance ? we shall be look for testimony on the actual effect of professional involvement on small language community throughout the world : both community member , and the professional themselve will have their tale to tell . we do not expect a common set of conclusion to emerge from this share of experience and analysis . but we shall be look at the variety we find , and ask if it point to a good way to define the role of the support organization : how they can complement one another , perhap share technique , perhap transmit knowledge ? some theme that need to be address : when do the professional best act as an external consultant , when as a team-player ? what be useful relation : among grammarian , lexicographer and sociolinguist ? among community-leader , language-activist and language-scientist ? among ordinary speaker , creative user , broadcaster and publisher ? what have be great success in specialist language work , and what motivate the people responsible ? how do local work benefit from el support organization with a global or continental view ? is the need for technical assistance , production of material , publicity , fund , political agitation ? should el support organization themselve specialize ? if so how : regionally , or by function ? the date will be 25-27 september 1998 , and the venue the pollock hall in edinburgh . there will be a preliminary volume of proceedings distribute at the conference . presentation will last twenty minute each , with a further ten minute for discussion . all presentation should be accessible largely in english , but use of the language of interest , for quotation or exemplification , may well be appropriate . organizer : dr nichola ostler foundation for endanger language , bath , england prof kenneth mackinnon university of edinburgh and hertfordshire dr briony william university of edinburgh , scotland programme committee : akira yamamoto , mahendra k verma , andrew woodfield , anthony woodbury , tasaku tsunoda , jane simpson , marus rhydwen , jon reyhner , nichola ostler , david nash , christopher moseley , kenneth mackinnon , john clew , margaret allen . abstract submission abstract should not exceed 500 word . they can be submit in one of two way : hard copy or electronic submission . they should be in english . a ) hard copy ( or fax ) : three copy should be send to : nichola ostler foundation for endanger language batheaston villum , 172 bailbrook lane bath ba1 7aa england this should have a clear short title , but should not bear anything to identify the author ( s ) . on a separate sheet , please include the follow information : name : name of the author ( s ) title : title of the paper email : email address of the first author , if any addr : postal address of the first author tel : telephone number of the first author , if any fax : fax number of the first author , if any the name of the first author will be use in all correspondence . if possible , please also send an e-mail to nichola ostler at < nostler @ chibcha . demon . co . uk > inform him of the hard copy submission . this be in case the hard copy do not reach its destination . this e-mail should contain the information specify in the section below . b ) electronic submission : electronic submission should be in plain ascius text email message give the follow detail : # name : name of first author # title : title of the paper # email : e - mail address of the first author # addr : postal address of the first author # tel : telephone number of the first author , if any # fax : fax number of the first author and in a separate section # abstr : abstract of the paper important dates abstract submission deadline march 29 notification of committee 's decision april 27 author submit camera-ready text july 14 conference sept 25-27 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - nichola ostler manage director president linguacubun ltd foundation for endanger language http : / / www . bri . ac . uk / dept / philosophy / ctll / fel / batheaston villum , 172 bailbrook lane bath ba1 7aa england + 44-1225 - 85-2865 fax + 44-1225 - 85-9258 nostler @ chibcha . demon . co . uk
