Subject: lrec - - new event , deadline

adapting lexical and corpus resources to sublanguages and applications a workshop to be hold at the first international conference on language resources and evaluation granada , spain , 26 may 1998 * * * * ( second announcement with extended deadline and new event ) * * * * the workshop will provide a forum for those researcher involve in the development of method to integrate corpus and mrds , with the aim of add adaptive capability to exist linguistic resource . organiser : roberto basilus ( university of roma " tor verga " ) , roberta catizone ( university of sheffield ) , maria teresa pazienza ( university of roma " tor verga " ) , paolum velardus ( university of roma " la sapienza ) , yorick wilk ( university of sheffield ) workshop scope and aims lexicon , i . e . , those component of a nlp system that contain " computable " information about word , cannot be consider as static object . word may behave very differently in different domain , and there be language phenomenon that do not generalize across sublanguage . lexicon be a snapshot of a give stage of development of a language , normally provide without support for adaptation change , whether cause by language creativity and development or the shift to such a previously unencounter domain . the divergence of corpus usage from lexical norm have be study computationally at least since the late sixty , but only recently have the availability of large on-line corpus make it possible to establish method to cope systematically with this problem . an emerge branch of research be now involve in study and experiment on corpus-driven linguistics , with the aim of complement and extend earlier work on lexicon acquisition base on machine readable dictionary ( mrd ) : datum be extract from text , as embodiment of language in use , so as to capture lexical regularity and to code them into operational form . the purpose of this workshop will be to provide an update snapshot of current work in the area , and promote discussion of how to make progress . central topic will be ( though this list be in no way exclusive ) : * corpus-driven tun of mrds to optimize domain-specific inference , * terminology and jargon acquisition , * sense extension , * acquisition of preference or subcategorization information from corpus * taxonomy adaptation , * statistical weight of senses etc . to domain * use of mrds to provide explanation of linguistic phenomenon in corpus * what be the scope of " lexical tun " * the evaluation of lexical tun as a separate task , or as part of a more generic task * * * * * new event : industrial panel * * * * * automatic adaptation of lexicon to new domain through the use of application corpus make nlp application more adaptable and portable . the program commettee be organize a join panel to discuss this ( and other ) issue concern next generation information extraction system . the panel intend to bring industrial representative to confront expectation in ie from their viewpoint and degree of maturity of the offer . relevant issue that will be discuss be : is there a market for ie ? what be the demand in domain such as new service for the citizen , telecommunication , management support , etc ? what be the technical requirement ? is the technology near to the market ? program committee yorick wilk university of sheffield roberta catizone university of sheffield paolum velardus university of roma " la sapienza " maria teresa pazienza university of roma " tor verga " roberto basilus university of roma " tor verga " brun boguraev brandei university sergeus nirenburg new mexico state university jame pustejowsky brandei university ralph grishman new york university christiane fellbaum princeton university paper submission formatting guidelines : paper should not exceed 4000 word or 10 page . hard copies : three hard copy should be send to : paolum velardus dipartimento dus scienza dell ' informazione vium salarium 113 00198 roma italy electronic submission : electronic submission will be allow in poscript or word per mac or rtf . an ftp site will be available on demand . author should send an info email to paolum velardus ( velardus @ dsus . uniroma1 . it ) even important dates ( * * * * please note extended deadline * * * * ) paper submission deadline ( hard copy / electronic ) march 10 paper notification april 1 camera - ready paper due april 20 l&ct workshop may 26 prof . paolum velardus dipartimento dus scienza dell ' informazione vium salarium 113 universita ' " la sapienza " 00198 roma ph . + 39 - ( 0 ) 6-49918356 fax + 39 - ( 0 ) 6-8541842 8841964
