Subject: lexical semantics in context : corpus , inference and discourse

esslli-98 workshop on lexical semantics in context : corpus , inference and discourse august 17 - 21 , 1998 a workshop hold as part of the 10th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli-98 ) august 17 - 28 , 1998 , saarbruecken , germany * * second call for papers * * organizers : johan bo ( saarbruecken ) and paul buitelaar ( brandei university ) the workshop aim at bring together research in two complementary field of semantic analysis that be still too far apart . in order to achieve both a broad and a deep understand of any give text document , a system need both advance acquisition of corpus specific lexical semantic knowledge and powerful inference mechanism that utilize that knowledge in discourse analysis . given the still relatively limit result within both area there have be little impetus to combine them . corpus - base extraction of lexical semantic knowledge have only recently become a more feasible task , because of the grow availibility of on-line text document ; robust corpus process technology , such as broad coverage part-of - speech tag and shallow parse ; and readily available statistical method . the various approach to discourse analysis , originate in such diverse field as formal semantics , psychology and ai , be in the process of converge into a unify approach to the analysis and representation of the cohesive structure of natural language document . the intersection between these two field lie in the application of lexical semantic knowledge to such problem in discourse analysis as anaphora resolution and discourse segmentation . in fact , the benefit will be mutual , because knowledge of discourse structure be helpful to lexical knowledge extraction as well . in summary , large scale domain specific lexical semantic knowledge acquisition can assist in analyze discourse structure , which in turn can assist in acquire even more accurate lexical semantic representation for the relevant term in the domain . further information : to obtain further information please visit the workshop home page at http : / / www . c . brandei . edu / ~ paulb / esslli98 . html
