Subject: esslli ' 98 - - probabilistic logic and randomise computation

esslli-98 workshop on probabilistic logic and randomised computation august 17 - 21 , 1998 a workshop hold as part of the 10th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli-98 ) august 17 - 28 , 1998 , saarbrueken , germany * * second call for papers * * organisers : alessandra di pierro and herbert wiklicky ( london ) web site : http : / / www . c . city . ac . uk / ~ adp / esslli98 . html background : probabilistic concept recently gain widespread interest in logic and computer science , for example in the investigation of randomise algorithm and probabilistic proof system . wherea probability and randomisation have alway play an important role in complexity theory ( from average case analysis to probabilistic complexity class ) the investigation of these notion in semantics be much more limit and only in the last year renew interest seem to develop . this workshop aim at bring together researcher from area like philosophy , logic , semantics and the theory of algorithm whose research be relate to aspect of probability , stochastic process , randomise algorithm etc . , in order to foster link and facilitate cross-fertilisation of idea among them . the workshop topic include : o philosophical foundation of probability o probabilistic logic o probabilistic proof system o probabilistic proof check o probabilistic knowledge representation o probabilistic game o randomise automaton o randomise algorithm o semantics of probabilistic language o probabilistic non-determinism o probabilistic reason o fuzzy and belief system o inexact match o constraint and probability o markov chain monte carlo method o practical application o randomise optimisation ( e . g . simulate anneal , genetic algorithm ) o ( stochastic ) approximation algorithm ( for np problem ) workshop format : the workshop will be hold as part of esslli ' 98 . there will be five session of 90 minute each , one on each day of the first week of the school ( august 17-22 , 1998 ) . the workshop will consist in the presentation of submit papers and discussion session . note contain the papers accept for presentation will be make available in electronic form . opportunity for publish revise version of the papers will be explore . the workshop will be open to attendance by all school registrant . submission : all researcher in the area , but especially ph . d . student and young researcher , be encourage to submit a paper . paper should be submit in the form of an extend abstract of no more than 4000 word ( 8-10 page ) in length , and must include the e-mail address of all author and a 200-300 word abstract . deadline be february 15 , 1998 . to submit a paper , please send a postscript file to < adp @ c . city . ac . uk > or < herbert @ c . city . ac . uk > or send three ( 3 ) hard copy of your paper to one of the organiser ( below ) . alessandra di pierro adp @ c . city . ac . uk http : / / www . c . city . ac . uk / ~ adp herbert wiklicky herbert @ c . city . ac . uk http : / / www . c . city . ac . uk / ~ herbert department of computer science school of informatic city university northampton square london ec1v 0hb unite kingdom electronic submission be strongly encourage . registration : workshop contributor will be require to register for esslli-98 , but they will be elligible for a reduce registration fee . important dates : feb 15 , 98 : deadline for submission apr 15 , 98 : notification of acceptance may 15 , 98 : deadline for final copy aug 17 , 98 : start of workshop further information : to obtain further information about esslli-98 please visit the esslli-98 home page at http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / essllus - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
