Subject: conference on linguistic & literature

the 10th annual conference on linguistic and literature will be hold at the radisson hotel and conference center in denton , texa on january 30 and 31 , 1998 . the conference be sponsor by the graduate student in english association at the university of north texa ( unt ) with generous support from the unt department of english and from the unt dean of art and science . plenary speakers : donald freeman ( university of southern californium ) " whither - - and whether - - english ? " gille fauconnier ( university of californium , san diego ) and mark turner ( university of maryland ) " gradient of creativity " highlight speakers : margaret freeman ( lo angele valley college ) " cognitive poetic : an adequate theory of literature ? " jame mccawley ( university of chicago ) " conversational scorekeep and the interpretation of narrative and expository prise " phylli perrin wilcox ( university of new mexico ) " cultural variability in the interpretation of metaphor and metonym in asl poetry " sherman wilcox ( university of new mexico ) " radical iconicity and sign language universal " plus 80 + other papers and presentation in all of the follow area : - literary analysis - linguistic analysis - linguistic and literature - cognitive metaphor - write pedagogy - creative reading : poetry - creative reading : prise a complete list of papers and presentation be available at our web site : http : / / www . unt . edu / language / * * * registration : follow standard practice , the conference offer a reduce rate for early registration . registration form must be return to denton vium snail-mail no later than january 20 , 1998 in order to receive the reduce rate . our snail-mail address : conference on linguistic and literature department of english university of north texa denton , tx 76203 those wish to register may use the form provide at our web site at http : / / www . unt . edu / language / or may email linglit @ unt . edu for a text copy of our registration form . please direct your conference question to linglit @ unt . edu
