Subject: 4th intl colloquium on grammatical inference ( icgl )

final call for paper http : / / www . c . iastate . edu / ~ icgi98 / icgi98 . html fourth international colloquium on grammatical inference ( icgi-98 ) program co - chair : vasant honavar and giora slutzkus iowa state university july 12-14 , 1998 iowa state university ame , iowa , usa . cosponsor by international institute of theoretical and apply physic iowa state university and in cooperation with american association for artificial intelligence ieee system , man , and cybernetic society acl special interest group on natural language learn introduction grammatical inference , variously refer to as automaton induction , grammar induction , and automatic language acquisition , refer to the process of learn of grammar and language from datum . machine learn of grammar find a variety of application in syntactic pattern recognition , adaptive intelligent agent , diagnosis , computational biology , system model , prediction , natural language acquisition , datum mine and knowledge discovery . traditionally , grammatical inference have be study by researcher in several research community include : information theory , formal language , automa theory , language acquisition , computational linguistic , machine learn , pattern recognition , computational learn theory , neural network , etc . perhap one of the first attempt to bring together researcher work on grammatical inference for an interdisciplinary exchange of research result take place under the aegis of the first colloquium on grammatical inference hold at the university of essex in unite kingdom in april 1993 . this be follow by the ( second ) international colloquium on grammatical inference , hold at alicante in spain , the proceedings of which be publish by springer - verlag as volume 862 of the lecture note in artificial intelligence , and the third international colloquium on grammatical inference , hold at montpellier in france , the proceedings of which be publish by springer - verlag as volume 1147 of the lecture note in artificial intelligence . follow the success of these event and the workshop on automa induction , grammatical inference , and language acquisition , hold in conjunction with the international conference on machine learn at nashville in unite state in july 1997 , the fourth international colloquium on grammatical inference will be hold from july 12 through july 14 , 1998 , at iowa state university in unite state . topic of interest the conference seek to provide a forum for presentation and discussion of original research papers on all aspect of grammatical inference include , but not limit to : * different model of grammar induction : e . g . , learn from example , learn use example and query , incremental versus non-incremental learn , distribution-free model of learn , learn under various distributional assumption ( e . g . , simple distribution ) , impossibility result , complexity result , characterization of representational and search bias of grammar induction algorithm . * algorithm for induction of different class of language and automaton : e . g . , regular , context-free , and context-sensitive language , interest subset of the above under additional syntactic constraint , tree and graph grammar , picture grammar , multi-dimensional grammar , attribute grammar , parameterize model , etc . * theoretical and experimental analysis of different approach to grammar induction include artificial neural network , statistical method , symbolic method , information-theoretic approach , minimum description length , and complexity-theoretic approach , heuristic method , etc . * broader perspective on grammar induction - - e . g . , acquisition of grammar in conjunction with language semantics , semantic constraint on grammar , language acquisition by situate agent and robot , acquisition of language construct that describe object and event in space and time , developmental and evolutionary constraint on language acquisition , etc . * demonstrate or potential application of grammar induction in natural language acquisition , computational biology , structural pattern recognition , information retrieval , text process , adaptive intelligent agent , system model and control , and other domain . program committee technical program chair : vasant honavar and giora slutzkus , iowa state university , usa . technical program committee : r . berwick , mit , usa a . brazma , european bioinformatic institute , cambridge , uk . m . brend , john hopkin university , usa c . cardie , cornell university , usa w . daeleman , tilburg university , netherland d . dowe , monash university , australium p . dupont , univ . st . etienne , france . d . estival , university of melbourne , australium j . feldman , international computer science institute , berkeley , usa l . gile , nec research institute , princeton , usa j . gregor , university of tennessee , usa c . de la higuera , lirmm , france a . itaus , technion , israel t . knuutilum , university of turku , finland j . koza , stanford university , usa k . lang , nec research institute , princeton , usa . m . li , university of waterloo , canada e . makinen , university of tampere , finland l . miclet , enssat , lannion , france . g . nagaraja , indian institute of technology , bombay , indium h . ney , university of technology , aachen , germany j . nicola , irisa , france r . parekh , allstate research and plan center , menlo park , usa l . pitt , university of illinoi at urbana - champaign , usa d . power , flinder university , australium l . reeker , national science foundation , usa y . sakakibara , tokyo denkus university , japan . c . samuelsson , lucent technology , usa a . sharma , university of new south wale , australium . e . vidal , u . politecnica de valencium , spain local arrangement committee dale grosvenor , iowa state university , usa . k . balakrishnan , iowa state university , usa . r . bhatt , iowa state university , usa j . yang , iowa state university , usa . conference format and proceeding the conference will include oral and possibly poster presentation of accept papers , a small number of tutorial and invite talk . all accept papers will appear in the conference proceedings to be publish by a major publisher . ( negotiation be underway with springer - verlag regard the publication of icgi-98 proceedings as a volume in their lecture note in artificial intelligence a subsery of the lecture note in computer science ) . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - submission of paper postscript version of the papers , no more than 12 page long , ( include figure , table , and reference ) , should be submit electronically to icgi98 - submission @ c . iastate . edu . accept papers will be allocate 12 page in the proceedings ( long papers ) or 6 page in the proceedings ( short papers ) . in those rare instance where author may be unable to submit postscript version of their papers electronically , we will try to accomodate them . each paper will be rigorously referee by at least 2 reviewer for technical soundness , originality , and clarity of presentation . deadline the relevant schedule for paper submission be as follow : * march 20 , 1998 . deadline for receipt of manuscript * april 21 , 1998 . notification of acceptance * may 1 , 1998 . camera ready copy due submission of proposal for tutorial the conference will include a small number of short ( 2 - hour ) tutorial on select topic in grammatical inference . some example of possible tutorial topic be : hidden markov model , computational biology application , and pac learnability of grammar . this list be mean only to be suggestive and not exhaustive . those interest in present a a tutorial should submit a proposal ( in plain text format ) to icgi-submission @ c . iastate . edu by electronic mail : * a brief abstract ( 300 word or less ) describe the topic to be cover * a brief description of the target audience and their expect background * a brief curriculum vita include the proposer 's relevant qualification and publication the relevant schedule for tutorial be as follow : * march 1 , 1998 . deadline for receipt of tutorial proposal * april 1 , 1998 . notification of acceptance * may 1 , 1998 . tutorial note due financial support limit financial support may be available , subject to the availability of fund , for : * scientist ( especially junior researcher ) from develop country , especially for those who can find other source of support for extend visit at a us institution * graduate student and postdoc from us institution additional detail will be post as they become available .
