Subject: reminder of coling-acl ' 98 workshop deadline ( cvir ' 98 )

call for papers coling-acl 1998 workshop content visualization and intermedium representation ( cvir ' 98 ) august 15 , 1998 university of montreal montreal , quebec , canada workshop description : in the last few year , multimedium system have become available which integrate text , graphic , sound ( speech and non-speech audio ) , as well as animation . there be many different community work on such system ( e . g . , hypermedium , human-machine interaction , information retrieval , scientific visualization , content extraction , dialog track ) , each with distinct concern and goal , and often the community be not aware of each other 's research and method . this workshop aim to bring together these community to examine the question of the visual presentation of diverse content through multiple media . the major goal be to explore common intermedium representation language which be expressive enough to cover diverse modality yet suitably appropriate for the individual media . with increase amount of datum , information , and knowledge available to the user , the effective use of visualization be increasingly important in application . example include : # visualization of datum in scientific literature , include support for interactive information retrieval ; # business and finance datum visualization ( datum profile ) ; # automate or assist map , graph , diagram , or image construction from text or datum ; event , process , and knowledge edit and visualization tool ; # and knowledge navigation over database , text , and search result . the specific issue address by the workshop include but be not limit to : 1 . definition of content : different discipline and application have distinct perspective on what content be , e . g . , of text , video , graphic , collection of interaction or correspondence . 2 . knowledge representation : i . e . , what it be , how to represent it , reason about it , and present it . 3 . taxonomy of content representation , task , and visualization artifact . 4 . representation for content and how these relate to and / or facilitate visualization task . 5 . selection and organization of content : decide what to present and how to organize the presentation of select content and why ( i . e . , effect ) . 6 . decide how to coordinate the presentation of content through several media : 7 . the relationship of cognitive task to visualization content and style ( e . g . , visualization structure , property , form , coherency , interpretability , and accuracy of display ) . 8 . decide how to accept and integrate input from several media . 9 . medium - specific encode of content . 10 . presentation and interaction technique of generate result . 11 . tailor visualization to specific user and usergroup characteristic , knowledge , and interest . 12 . content visualization evaluation metric and method . we encourage submission of demonstration and / or video of work visualization pertain to the above topic . the organizer will produce a workshop report and , provide there be sufficient interest and adequate result report , will consider a special edit journal issue and / or state of the art collection . author be encourage to submit their workshop papers simultaneously for public discussion to the area intelligence user interface of the electronic transaction on artificial intelligence ( etai ) . the etai be a new kind of electronic journal use open and posteriorus review . formally , the rule work as follow . in the etai , you first have the article discuss for three month , then you have a chance to revise it base on the feedback , and then you decide whether to submit it for referee in the etai or in some other journal . for more information , see : http : / / www . ida . liu . se / ext / etaus / . sponsors : sigmedia ( acl 's special interest group on multimedium language process ) acl / coling program committee : elisabeth andre , dfki saarbruecken branimir boguraev , ibm watson research steve feiner , columbium university michael johnston , oregon graduate institute mark maybury , mitre corporation jame pustejovsky , brandei university steve roth , carnegie mellon university wolfgang wahlster , dfki saarbruecken kent wittenburg , gte laboratory program chairs : jame pustejovsky , brandei university mark t . maybury , mitre requirements for submission : paper be invite that address any of the topic list above . maximum length be 8 page include figure and reference . please use us or a4 letter format and set margin so that the text lie within a rectangle of 6 . 5 x 9 inch ( 16 . 5 x 23 cm ) . use classical font such as time roman or computer modern , 11 to 12 point for text , 14 to 16 point for heading and title . latex user be encourage to use the acl style file for leat . ms - word user should use the acl style file for ms - word . submission can be make either as hardcopy or electronically in ascii , postscript , html , or ms - word format . they should be send to : jame pustejovsky cvir ' 98 computer science department 258 volen brandei university waltham , ma 02254-9110 voice : 1-781 - 736-2709 fax : 1-781 - 736-2741 email : jamesp @ c . brandei . edu more detail information on the workshop can be find at : http : / / www . c . brandei . edu / ~ jamesp / cvir / timetable * deadline for electronic submission : march 11 , 1998 * deadline for hardcopy submission : march 13 ( arrival date ) * notification of acceptance : may 1 , 1998 * final manuscript due : june 12 , 1998 organizer information : mark t . maybury , director advance information system center the mitre corporation ( ms k308 ) 202 burlington road bedford , ma 984 tel : 1-78 - 271-7230 fax : 1-781 - 271-2780 maybury @ mitre . org james pustejovsky , associate professor computer science department and volen center for complex system brandei university waltham , ma 02254-9110 voice : 1-781 - 736-2709 fax : 1-781 - 736-2741 jamesp @ c . brandei . edu jame pustejovsky associate professor computer science department and volen center for complex system brandei university waltham , ma 02254-9110 usa voice : 1-781 - 736-2709 fax : 1-781 - 736-2741 jamesp @ c . brandei . edu http : / / www . c . brandei . edu / ~ jamesp http : / / www . c . brandei . edu / ~ rllc
