Subject: new trend in variationist linguistic : from attitude to grammar

the linguistic association of finland be organize a summer course / workshop on new trends in variationist linguistics : from attitudes to grammar to be hold at the university of oulu , the per \ 228merus research station by the unique nature reserve on the hailuoto island august 14-16 , 1998 the workshop will bring together researcher and phd student work in the field of language variation , rang from morpho-syntactic variation to dialectology , sociolinguistic variation , code-switch , language attitude and belief , and variation in interactional practice . the aim of the workshop be to explore new issue in the study of variation , such as the use of new methodology and type of datum . participant be strongly encourage to give a paper on any aspect of language variation , as this be an excellent opportunity to get feedback from other work in this area and from some of the lead scholar in variationist study . invite speaker : peter auer ( university of hamburg ) juhanus klemolum ( university of leed ) denni preston ( michigan state university ) activity : * lecture by invite speaker * presentation by other participant ( 20 min + 10 min for discussion ) * recommend reading before the workshop ( the read list will be distrus - bute to register participant ) registration fee : * general : fim 200 * member of the association : fim 100 * undergraduate and ma student free * payment upon registration * send by giro account no 800013-1424850 to the linguistic association of finland ( sky ) / variation , or payment at the begin of the workshop in cash other cost : * accommodation and food fim 170 x 3 . accommodation primarily in 4 - 8 person room . * bus from oulu to hailuoto on the morn of 14 august and back on the afternoon of 16 august ( fare between fim 50-100 ) the deadline for submission of abstract ( one page ; preferably in english ) and registration be april 30 , 1998 . please register and submit an abstract by e-mail to the follow address : variation @ ling . helsinkus . fus if you send this information by snail mail , please provide an e-mail address as a contact address ( if possible ) . participant will be notify about acceptance by may 31 . for further information , please contact one of the follow organizer : marja leinonen marja - leena sorjonen filologium ii department of finnish university of tampere p . o . box 33 p . o . box 67 fin-00014 university of helsinkus 33101 tampere finland finland e-mail : sorjonen @ helsinkus . fus e-mail : f2male @ uta . fus elise k \ 228rkk \ 228inen mattus miestamo department of english department of linguistic university of oulu p . o . box 4 p . o . box 111 fin-00014 university of helsinkus fin-90571 oulu finland finland e-mail : matmy @ ling . helsinkus . fus e-mail : elise . karkkainen @ oulu . fus information can also be find at : http : / / www . ling . helsinkus . fus / sky / variation . html
