Subject: dialog ' 98

dialogue ' 98 international workshop on computational linguistics and its application kazan ( russium ) , may 31 - june 4 , 1998 * * * * final call for papers * * * * dear colleague , as you probably know dialogue ' 98 , an international annual workshop on computational linguistics and its application , will take place this year in may 31 - june 4 , near kazan ( tatarstan , russian federation ) . dialogue ' 98 should become fourth international workshop in row of dialogue ' 95 kazan dialogue ' 96 puschino dialogue ' 97 yasnaya polyana revive the tradition of the interdisciplinary dialogue seminar which be regular national event in the ussr during 70 - 80 . the workshop be an annual meet place for a dialogue : a ) between researcher from different field that be relate to computational linguistics ( linguist , computer and cognitive scientist , psychologist , researcher in the artificial intelligence ) ; b ) between researcher from the former ussr and the international community . topic of interest include ( but be not limit to ) : * theoretical and cognitive linguistics * syntax , semantics , pragmatic and their interaction * multilingual natural language process * system for natural language process * text , dialogue and speech act in the computational framework * knowledge representation and process the number of participant be expect about 100 . every prospective attendee be require to submit a short research summary include relevant recent publication , regular and e-mail address , fax and phone number . participant who wish to present their work be additionally require to submit a poster ( 3 - 4 double-space page , 6 - 8 kb ) or a full paper ( not exceed 12 double - space page , 24 kb ) preferably vium e-mail ( in plain ascii or uuencode winword file ) to the aldress of the program committee . because of some additional organize difficulty which postpone this letter the commitee decide to add two week to the time-table of formation of the workshop 's program : * * * deadline for submission : march 16 , 1998 * * * notification of acceptance : march 25 , 1998 * * * final paper due : april 15 , 1998 please send submission in russian or english , papers in russian should be accompany with a short summary in english ( approximately 100-200 word ) . we plan to organize select english - to - russian and russian - to - english translation of talk . address for all correspondence : e-mail : dialog98 @ bull . nmd . msu . ru snail mail : dialogue ' 98 russian instititue for artificial intelligence p . o . box 111 , moscow , 103001 , russium . in the field of computational linguistics in russium the dialogue workshop become regular annual event which attract lead researcher from the former ussr as well as other country . we hope that dialogue ' 98 will continue this tradition . program committee : alexander s . narin ' yanus , program chair ( russian institute of artificial intelligence ) christian boitet ( grenoble university ) rai . g . bukharajev ( kazan state university ) ilya n . gorelov ( saratov state university ) alexander e . kibrik ( moscow state university ) igor a . mel ' chuk ( montreal university ) sergeus nirenburg ( new - mexico state university ) haldur oim ( tartu university ) dmitrij a . pospelov ( computer center of russian academy of science ) secretariate : natalya i . laufer , ( russian institute of artificial intelligence ) olga . v . fedorova , ( moscow state university ) in the organizing committee be include : rai . g . bukharajev ( kazan state university ) valerus solovyev ( kazan state university ) djavdet sulejmanov ( kazan state university ) il 'd us hajbullin ( tatarstan academy of sciense ) nail ' zaimov ( kazan state university ) if you have question about the workshop , please send e-mail letter to the above-mention address . please , share this information letter with people you think it may concern .
