Subject: granada workshop

adapting lexical and corpus resources to sublanguages and applications a workshop to be hold at the first international conference on language resources and evaluation granada , spain , 26 may 1998 the workshop will provide a forum for those researcher involve in the development of method to integrate corpus and mrds , with the aim of add adaptive capability to exist linguistic resource . organiser : roberto basilus ( university of roma " tor verga " ) , roberta catizone ( university of sheffield ) , maria teresa pazienza ( university of roma " tor verga " ) , paolum velardus ( university of roma " la sapienza ) , yorick wilk ( university of sheffield ) workshop scope and aims lexicon , i . e . , those component of a nlp system that contain " computable " information about word , cannot be consider as static object . word may behave very differently in different domain , and there be language phenomenon that do not generalize across sublanguage . lexicon be a snapshot of a give stage of development of a language , normally provide without support for adaptation change , whether cause by language creativity and development or the shift to such a previously unencounter domain . the divergence of corpus usage from lexical norm have be study computationally at least since the late sixty , but only recently have the availability of large on-line corpus make it possible to establish method to cope systematically with this problem . an emerge branch of research be now involve in study and experiment on corpus-driven linguistics , with the aim of complement and extend earlier work on lexicon acquisition base on machine readable dictionary ( mrd ) : datum be extract from text , as embodiment of language in use , so as to capture lexical regularity and to code them into operational form . the purpose of this workshop will be to provide an update snapshot of current work in the area , and promote discussion of how to make progress . central topic will be ( though this list be in no way exclusive ) : * corpus-driven tun of mrds to optimize domain-specific inference , * terminology and jargon acquisition , * sense extension , * acquisition of preference or subcategorization information from corpus * taxonomy adaptation , * statistical weight of senses etc . to domain * use of mrds to provide explanation of linguistic phenomenon in corpus * what be the scope of " lexical tun " * the evaluation of lexical tun as a separate task , or as part of a more generic task program committee yorick wilk university of sheffield roberta catizone university of sheffield paolum velardus university of roma " la sapienza " maria teresa pazienza university of roma " tor verga " roberto basilus university of roma " tor verga " brun boguraev brandei university sergeus nirenburg new mexico state university jame pustejowsky brandei university ralph grishman new york university christiane fellbaum princeton university paper submission formatting guidelines : paper should not exceed 4000 word or 10 page . hard copies : three hard copy should be send to : paolum velardus dipartimento dus scienza dell ' informazione vium salarium 113 00198 roma italy electronic submission : electronic submission will be allow in poscript or word per mac or rtf . an ftp site will be available on demand . author should send an info email to paolum velardus ( velardus @ dsus . uniroma1 . it ) even if they submit in paper form . an electronic submission should be accompany by a plain ascius text . # name : name of first author # title : title of the paper # pages : number of page # files : name of file ( if also submit electronically ) # note : anythe you 'd like to add # keys : keyword # email : email of the first author # abstr : abstract of the paper # . . . . . . important dates paper submission deadline ( hard copy / electronic ) february 20 paper notification march 20 camera - ready paper due april 15 l&ct workshop may 26 conference information general information about the conference be at : < http : / / www . icp . inpg . fr / elra / conflre . html > specific query about the conference should be direct to : lrec secretariat facultad de traduccion e interpretacion dpto . de traduccion e interpretacion c / puentezuela , 55 18002 granada , spain tel : + 34 58 24 41 0 - fax : + 34 58 24 41 4 reli98 @ goliat . ugr . e
