Subject: terminology & knowledge engineer

first call for paper tke ' 99 communicate into 2000 5th international congress on terminology and knowledge engineer innsbruck ( austrium ) 24-28 august 1999 organize by association for terminology and knowledge transfer ( gtw ) international information centre for terminology ( infoterm ) international network for terminology ( termnet ) objective of the congress on behalf of the association for terminology and knowledge transfer - gesellschaft fur terminologie und wissenstransfer ( gtw ) we be please to announce the 5th international congress on terminology and knowledge engineer tke ' 99 which will be hold on the campus of the university of innsbruck , austrium , between 24-28 august , 1999 . in continuation of the first four tke congress in trier ( 1987 and 1990 ) , cologne ( 1993 ) and vienna ( 1996 ) , tke ' 99 will address world-wide interest in the interdisciplinary method of terminology science , information science and computer science . it should furthermore help achieve the " universal availability of information and knowledge " vium computerize method and tool , open new horizon for more efficient application base upon this integration of methodology and elicit the interest and participation of expert work in the field that be gradually draw nearer from the point of theory and methodology such as - terminology research - knowledge engineer - language engineer - computational philosophy - classification theory - information & documentation - computer - assist instruction / learn - computerize terminography - specialize translation - technical write we welcome submission of papers describe substantial , original and unpublish research contribution in these field . tke ' 99 will be divide into 8 section concentrate on the follow area of research : 1 . knowledge theory and terminology 2 . knowledge data management 3 . multimedium and terminology 4 . language engineer and terminology 5 . documentation and terminology 6 . world wide web and terminology 7 . multilingualism and terminology 8 . specialist communication and terminology author will be ask to identify the section to which their submission correspond . contribution that do not fall into any of the above area but be nevertheless relevant to the field be also welcome . the work language of the congress be english . this refer to the write contribution as well as to their oral presentation . author be ask to provide an abstract ( approx . 2 page ) of their papers to the programme organizer by 15 october 1998 , at the latest . the title page be to show the title of the paper , the author 's name , address , phone number and fax number , and the section to which he / she be plan to contribute . the abstract should be send preferably by e-mail ( peter . sandrinus @ uibk . ac . at ) ( a submission form be available on the tke home page : http : / / gtw-org . uibk . ac . at ) or by mail ( 4 copy ) or fax . the abstract then undergo a review process carry out by the program committee and the section organizer . by the end of november 1998 the author will be inform about the acceptance of their papers . then they will have time until february 1999 to submit a full paper in a4 camera-ready format and on floppy disk ( approx . 10 page for the session papers and 15 page for the keynote ) , which will be process for publication in the proceedings and print prior to the congress . the proceedings will be available for the participant at the begin of the congress . workshop / tutorial proposal for workshop and / or tutorial within the framework of the congress be welcome and should be send as soon as possible to the programme organizer . please send your submission to peter sandrinus universit \ 228t innsbruck , fischnalerstr . 4 , a-6020 innsbruck tel + 43 512 507 4261 fax + 43 512 507 2966 email peter . sandrinus @ uibk . ac . at deadline abstract 15 october 1998 review process november 1998 acceptance of the paper december 1998 full papers 15 february 1998deadline for cheaper registration 30 june 1999 congress 24 - 26 august 1999 workshop / tutorial 27 - 28 august 1999 program committee : gerhard budin , infoterm , vienna ( austrium ) m . teresa cabr \ 233 castellv \ 237 , universitat pompeu fabra , barcelona ( spain ) karl - heinz freigang , universitat saarbrucken ( germany ) christian galinskus , infoterm , vienna ( austrium ) john d . graham , mannesmann - demag , duisburg ( germany ) felix mayer , europaische akademie bozen ( italy ) alan k . melby , brigham young university , provo ( usa ) erhard oeser , universitat wien , vienna ( austrium ) heribert picht , handelshajskolen i kobenhavn , copenhagen ( denmark ) m . cecilium plest alvarez , universidad de antioquium ( colombium ) peter sandrinus , universitat innsbruch ( austrium ) klaus - dirk schmitz , fachhochschule koln , cologne ( germany ) sergey d . shelov , committee for scientific terminology in fundamental research ( russium ) helmus sonneveld , eaft ( netherland ) sue ellen wright , kent - state - university , ohio ( usa ) we look forward to receive your submission .
