Subject: rmmla / ads

* * * * * * * * paper solicit for the 1998 rmmla conference * * * * * * * * * conjoint meet : american dialect society : session chair , simonie hodge georgetown university 2525 farmcrest dr . # 328 herndon , va 20171 usa this session showcase papers on various aspect of american dialect . example of previous paper topic include : dialect of utah , the use of formal and informal pronoun " you " in spanish speak city , jamaican english in historical play , and sweet carbonate beverage isogloss in the u . s . we hope that you will propose a paper for the 1998 rmmla ( rocky mountain modern language association ) conference in salt lake city . please address your proposal to the chair of the appropriate session . proposal base on a 300 - word abstract be due to the session chair no later than 15 february 1998 . these proposal must be send on paper and on 3 . 5 " disk ( preferably ibm - compatible format ) . if you would like the disk return to you , please enclose a stamp , self - address envelope . you will be notify of the chair 's decision by 15 march 1998 . complete version of accept papers be due to the chair by 15 august ( paper and disk copy ) . visit the rmmla website at rmmlum . wsu . edu / rmmlum / callforpaper / call973 . asp for more detail on the other topic at the conference . - guideline for paper and presenter at the rmmla conference - - we would appreciate your follow a few rmmla rule regard papers present at our conference . rmmla be an organization for its member . you must be a member in good stand to present a paper . your membership must be current by 1 april 1998 to have your name appear in the program . you may not read papers in more than one session . it be courteous to notify the chair if you submit to more than one session . if you have two papers accept , please decide which you will give , and notify both chair , as well as the rmmla secretariat . if we discover the duplication and be not able to reach you , we will have to choose for you . member who propose papers be expect to attend the convention to read at the schedule time . no more than two member of the same institution may appear on any panel . no one 's name may appear on the program more than twice ( i . e . as a chair and a presenter ; appearance as a secretary be not consider ) . please notify the chair and the rmmla secretariat immediately if you find you be unable to present . it be the policy of the rmmla not to have papers read in absentia . ( nb : rmmla due dates represent date for receipt . please allow adequate time when mail oversea or to distant address . ) proposal for papers for the 1998 convention be due to the chair no later than 15 february 1998 , because chair must have the program copy for their session in the hand of the executive director by 1 march 1998 . this timeline be critical for set and finalize the program . thank you in advance for your cooperation .
