Subject: workshop on embody conversational character

the first workshop on embody conversational character granlibakken resort & conference center at lake tahoe tahoe city ( north shore ) californium , usa october 12-15 , 1998 with the support of aaai cooperation of acm / sigchi call for paper recent advance in several core software technology have make possible a new type of human-computer interface : the conversational character . conversational character be autonomous , anthropomorphic , animate figure that have the ability to communicate through multiple modality , include speak language , facial expression , and gesture . unlike textual natural language interface , conversational character have the ability to perceive and produce the verbal and non-verbal signal that identify discourse structure and regulate the flow of information between interlocutor . such signal include intonational pattern , gesture , back-channel feedback signal , and turn-take protocol . these capability enable them to engage in complex interaction with human user vium natural speech rather than complex command language , menus or graphical manipulation . research on conversational character have emerge from a number of discipline , include , among other , artificial intelligence , computational linguistics , computer animation , computer vision , psychology , cognitive science , virtual reality , cscw , and hci . this diversity be naturally reflect in the broad range of active research area in conversational character interface . the primary goal of this workshop be to advance the state of conversational character research and development by identify novel approach to the topic and issue list below , and integrate them into a framework for embody , conversational human-computer interaction . select contributor will be invite to expand and refine their papers for inclusion in a book to be publish by addison - wesley . the aim of this book will be to introduce , define , and advance the field ; to give a snapshot of current work in it ; and to suggest future challenge and opportunity . particular topic of interest include , but be not limit to : * multus - modal interaction * autonomy * recognition & perception of speech , * behavior / dialogue plan gesture , facial expression , etc . * distribution of semantic information * reactivity and opportunism across multiple modality * render technique * representation * semantic representation for * character individuation non-verbal communication * dialogue plan * affect and personality * turn - take and back-channel signal * user study * spoken language process * tool for character * discourse structure build / author * intonation * architecture & application paper should address one or more of these topic . demonstration and video presentation of work system be strongly encourage . format the two and a half-day workshop will include several paper session , organize around emerge theme , with follow-up panel discussion . in addition , there will be a demonstration session for author to present work system . attendance attendance will be limit to 35-40 people . preference will be give to author whose papers have be select for presentation at the workshop . submission requirement paper submission be due on june 15 , 1998 , and should be no longer than 6 page ( 10-12 point font ) . upon acceptance , author will be give the opportunity to expand their papers to 8-10 page . electronic submission in postscript or microsoft word format be prefer , and should be send to prevost @ pal . xerox . com . otherwise , send four hardcopy to : scott prevost attn : embody conversational character workshop fx palo alto laboratory 3400 hillview avenue , bldg . 4 palo alto , ca 94304 voice : 650 / 813-7701 deadline submission due june 15th notification of acceptance august 17th final papers due september 14th workshop october 12th - 15th workshop organizer joseph w . sullivan , fx palo alto lab , usa ( sullivan @ pal . xerox . com ) justine cassell , mit medium laboratory , usa ( justine @ media . mit . edu ) workshop program committee committee co - chair : scott prevost , fx palo alto lab , usa ( prevost @ pal . xerox . com ) elizabeth churchill , fx palo alto lab , usa ( churchill @ pal . xerox . com ) committee member : elisabeth andre , dfki gmbh , germany ( elisabeth . andre @ dfkus . de ) gene ball , microsoft research , usa ( geneb @ microsoft . com ) phil cohen , oregon graduate institute , usa ( pcohen @ cse . ogus . edu ) barbara haye - roth , stanford univ . , usa ( hayes-roth @ c . stanford . edu ) kenjus mase , atr international , japan ( mase @ mic . atr . co . jp ) clifford nass , stanford university , usa ( nass @ leland . stanford . edu ) mark steedman , university of pennsylvanium , usa ( steedman @ ci . upenn . edu ) kri thorisson , lego a / s , denmark ( kris @ digus . lego . com ) demo chair : timothy bickmore , isii inc . , usa ( bickmore @ pal . xerox . com ) additional information for more information , please consult the workshop web page : www . fxpal . com / wecc98 /
