Subject: lrec workshop

call for participation a workshop on minimize the effort for language resource acquisition granada , spain , 26 may , 1998 in conjunction with the first international conference on language resource and evaluation granada , spain , 28-30 , may 1998 an apply nlp system must produce adequate result and must be make deployable within reasonable time . gather and acquire language resource to build an application system be very time-consume , and it be imperative to find way of speed up acquisition of high quality , useful static knowledge source such as a variety of grammar , lexicon , corpus , etc . viability of avoid masive resource acquisition , if possible , must also be carefully consider . resource acquisition should include method , base both on sound theoretical principle and practical experience , of decide , among other thing , on the amount of knowledge one * really * need for a give application . increase the size of knowledge source or their number and variety do not necessarily lead to a commensurate improvement of output quality in an application , though a correlation between the two certainly exist , but it definitely need to much increase cost . no matter how large the acquire resource be and how many of them have be acquire , there will alway remain a residue of language process problem which can be tackle only by forego the requirement of full automation and involve expensive semi-automatic or even manual acquisition . it become imperative , therefore , to assess when the static knowledge source acquisition be no longer profitable . thus , in a system for interactive author and automatic generation of patent claim text , the lexical knowledge base can be restrict to a lexicon of domain-relate verb mark for subcategorization ( as the nominal be provide interactively by the author ) . the propose workshop will be devote to any technological and administrative facet of economy of acquisition effort . the technological issue to be discuss at the conference include , but are not limited to : - minimization of effort in acquire monolingual and multilingual text corpus ; - minimization of effort in acquire computational lexicon , include phonological , morphological , syntactic , semantic and other ( include application-specific ) information ; - minimization of effort in acquisition of resource for the support of corpus-base language engineer method ; - minimization of effort in acquire grammatical coverage of language and sublanguage ; - method of determine level of reusability of exist language resource ; - balance the need of the application and the grain size of language description ; - minimization of effort through balance automatic and interactive method of knowledge acquisition ; - evaluation of potential utility of resource to application ; we particularly encourage report about actual practical large-scale resource acquisition effort in which economy of effort have be a conscious choice . organize committee : svetlana sheremetyeva , nmsu crl , usa ( chair ) eduard hovy , usc isi , usa bernardo magninus , irst , italy sergeus nirenburg , nmsu crl , usa victor raskin , purdue university , usa frederique segonde , xerox research centre europe , france leo wanner , university of stuttgart , germany submission of papers paper should not exceed 4000 word or 10 page . presentation will be select on the basis of a review of papers and project report . submission mode each submission should include a title page contain the title , author ( s ) , affiliation ( s ) , submit author 's mail address , telephone number , fax number and e-mail address . the author may submit three hard copy or submit electronically in postscript form to : svetlana sheremetyeva compute research laboratory new mexico state university , usa box30001 / dept . 3crl / las cruce new mexico 88003-8001 lana @ crl . nmsu . edu receipt of submission will be acknowledge . important dates thursday , february 19 , 1998 submission due monday , march , 16 1998 acceptance and rejection friday , april 10 1998 final papers due tuesday , may 26 , 1998 workshop date registration for the workshop will be : 10 , 0 peseta for those not attend lrec 5 , 0 peseta for those attend lrec these fee will include a coffee break and the proceedings of the workshop . participation in the workshop will be limit by the venue . request for participation will be process on the first come first serve basis .
