Subject: computer and the humanity

computers and the humanities for over thirty year , computer and the humanity ( chum ) have be the premier international journal for publication on language , text , and humanities-relate research . start with the publication of volume 31 , chum be take on a new look , with a new cover and format , together with a new editorial staff represent area across the variety of discipline cover by the journal . in addition to continue to publish top-quality article cover all kind of textual analysis , corpus study , and language and literary analysis , we be actively seek to extend our scope to cover the full range of material which be available for research in humanities discipline , include image , sound , speech datum , etc . we invite the submission of high-quality article describe research concern the creation , representation , and maintenance of text resource and other media , as well as description of methodology and result of research use such material , include statistical and symbolic method , strategy for information storage and retrieval , etc . in keep with chum 's long tradition of foster inter-disiplinary work , we also encourage submission of article involve multi-lingual and / or multi-modal application and research . we extend a special invitation for article which survey the current state-of - the-art in any relevant area . such article should provide an overview of past and recent work , an assessment of the current achievement and direction for future research , and a full bibliography which may serve as a reference for those interest in the field . for a recent example , see " current approach to punctuation in computational linguistic " , b . say and v . akman , chum 30 : 6 ( 1996 ) . in addition to publish full-length research article , chum also publish a section on report and discussion , which include shorter article report on project , intermediate result , or discuss relevant issue . contribution to this section be also solicit . for information about computer and the humanity and article submission procedure , consult http : / / www . wkap . nl / computers and the humanities - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - editorial staff editor - in-chief : nancy ide , vassar college , usa daniel greenstein , king 's college , uk resource review editor : ellus mylona , brown university , usa board of commission editor : sheilum anderson , university of essex , uk stephen arnold , glasgow university , uk r . h . baayen , max planck institute for psycholinguistic , the netherland david t . barnard , university of regina , canada christian delcourt , universite de liege , belgium richard giordano , university of manchester , uk claus huitfeldt , university of bergen , norway judith l . klavan , columbium university , usa john lavagnino , brown university , usa kirk martinez , birkbeck college , uk mark olsen , university of chicago , usa philip resnik , university of maryland , usa julian richard , york university , uk laurent romary , centre de recherche en informatique de nancy , france dan tufi , romanian academy of science , romanium syun tutiya , chiba university , japan john unsworth , university of virginium , usa ; ellen voorhee , national institute for standard and technology , usa
