Subject: kitahara review .

hisatsugu kitahara , ( 1997 ) elementary operation and optimal derivation , mit press , cambridge , mass . 140 page , $ 15 . 0 . review by julie legate , < jlegate @ mit . edu > this book be very firmly situate within the minimalist approach to syntactic theory that be begin by chomsky ( 1991 ) and perhap most fully articulate in chomsky ( 1995 ) . it adopt much of the basic architecture of the 1995 version of minimalism ( henceforth mp ) , while derive several of its principle and assumption . the first three chapter of the book propose some comparatively minor alteration to the mp system , and demonstrate that these alteration allow several stipulation of the mp to be drop , while retain or improve the framework 's empirical coverage . the final chapter retain the proposal of the previous chapter while put forth a new condition that be a more clear departure from the mp approach . with this condition , kitahara be able to account for several notoriously problematic wh-construction . kitahara 's first chapter consist of a review of the minimalist syntactic framework . he discuss the conceptual foundation of the approach ( the unflinch application of occam 's razor to every aspect of the computational system ) , the guide principle of global economy , as well as the internal mechanism of the computation ( include the creation of syntactic tree through successive operation of merge and of morphological feature-driven move ) . hbe second chapter contain the core proposal of the book . kitahara replace the operation of merge , move , and erase by two " elementary operation " : " concatenation " and " replacement " . concatenation be the procedure which join two object alpha and beta to form a new object k . replacement , on the other hand , substitute an object alpha for an object beta , where beta be contain within a larger object sigma . the mp operation be redefine use these elementary operation as follow ( p35 ) : ( i ) cyclic merge = concatenation cyclic move = concatenation noncyclic merge = concatenation + replacement noncyclic move = concatenation + replacement erase = replacement he further redefine the shortest derivation condition ( chomsky 1991 , 1993 ; epstein 1992 ) in term of these operation , as in ( ius ) ( p26 ) : ( ius ) shortest derivation condition ( sdc ) minimize the number of elementary operation necessary for convergence . given this technology , he proceeds to derive several of the principle and assumption of mp . first , he consider cyclicity , provide a detail summary and comparison of the approach take in chomsky 1993 , 1994 , and 1995 . he derive that , in simple case , cyclic convergent derivation should be prefer over noncyclic convergent one , since cyclic operation yield a shorter derivation . as show in ( i ) above , cyclic operation involve only one elementary operation : concatenation , wherea noncyclic one require two : concatenation and replacement . next , he turn to the mp principle of procrastinate : covert movement ( i . e . movement which occur in the computation after the derivation be send to pf for pronunciation ) be preferable to overt movement . he separate the discussion into head movement , object shift , and expletive insertion . he adopt the mp assumption that ( a ) movement result in two instance of identical element , one in the merge position and the other in the move position ( i . e . the copy theory of movement ) ; ( b ) if an element be overtly attract , the entire category move , wherea if an element be covertly attract , only the formal feature move ; and ( c ) only one of the identical element create by movement be interpret at lf . finally , he propose a novel interpretation of effect of strong feature in the grammar , as in ( iius ) ( p37 ) : ( iius ) strong feature condition spell - out apply to sigma only if sigma contain no category with a strong feature . regard head movement , in language with overt verb raise , t have a strong v feature and thus overt raise be necessary for convergence . in language without overt verb raise , the sdc select derivation with covert , rather than overt , verb raise . although both covert and overt head movement involve one operation of replacement ( since head movement be necessarily non-cyclic ) , kitahara claim that overt head movement , be category movement require an additional instance of replacement , thus result in a longer derivation . hbe reason be as follow . if a verb move overtly , its semantic feature be carry along . therefore , at lf it will be necessary to delete one of the instance of the semantic feature , since element be only interpret once . this require an application of replacement that be not need for covert movement , since covert movement only affect the formal feature , not the semantic feature as well . notice that the same reason will not extend to phrasal movement . overt movement will require one instance of replacement to delete the semantic feature of one member of the chain ( just consider a simple two-member chain ) , however covert movement will also require one instance of replacement , since covert movement be necessarily non-cyclic . thus , the sdc cannot choose between derivation with overt object shift and those without . this predict the optionality of object shift in language like icelandic , without resort to the mp ' optional strong feature ' analysis , which be a simple restatement of the fact . in language without overt verb movement , object shift be predict to be impossible , assume that the object shift to the outside specifier of vp , the inside specifier be the merge position of the subject , and that multiple specifier be not equidistant from a higher head , unless head movement render them equidistant . thus , the shift object would block movement of the subject to tp , unless the verb have raise to t . kitahara acknowledge ( p144 , fn26 ) , however , that he cannot explain language like french , that display overt verb raise but prohibit object shift . finally , kitahara consider the time of expletive insertion . notice that although mp assume that merge be cheaper than move , kitahara 's reanalysis predict that merge be equally economical to cyclic move , since both consist of one application of concatenation . since the time of expletive insertion be the primary empirical motivation for the mp assumption , kitahara demonstrate that this time be equally capture within his system . consider the familiar sentence ( iv ) and ( v ) . ( iv ) there seem to be a man in the room . ( v ) * there seem a man to be in the room . in ( iv ) , the expletive be insert in the embed [ spec , t ] and raise to the matrix tp . in ( v ) , on the other hand , " a man " be raise to the embed tp and the expletive be insert directly into the specifier of the matrix tp . mp claim that ( iv ) be prefer over ( v ) because it be cheaper to merge the expletive into the embed tp than to move the associate . kitahara claim that these fact follow from his sdc . since expletive be assume to have no semantic feature , overt raise of " there " will not require an application of replacement to delete an instance of semantic feature in ( iv ) . in ( v ) , on the other hand , overt raise of " a man " will require replacement to delete one of the result two instance of the semantic feature of " a man " . therefore , the derivation in ( iv ) be shorter than that in ( v ) and thus prefer . as a side point , notice that this analysis require that the formal feature of " a man " raise covertly directly to the matrix t . if these feature raise to the embed tp covertly , the non-cyclic movement would result in an additional application of replacement , and ( iv ) and ( v ) should be equally economical ( an equivalent situation to object shift ) . kitahara conclude chapter two with a note about the time of expletive insertion in icelandic transitive expletive construction . he assume the mp analysis that the associate ( i . e . the subject of the transitive ) move into the inner specifier of tp and the expletive merge into the outer specifier of tp , the verb appear between the two as a verb-second phenomenon . he note that although this situation be the opposite of the english situation discuss above , i . e . here category movement precede expletive insertion , this be predict by the restriction against downward movement . assume the associate must move to adjoin to the expletive at lf , the associate must appear lower than the expletive , in order for this movement to be raise rather than lower . in chapter three , kitahara demonstrate that chomsky 's ( 1995 ) minimal link condition can explain phenomenon which have previously receive disparate analysis in the literature . ( vus ) minimal link condition ( mlc ) h ( k ) attract alpha only if there be no beta , beta closer to h ( k ) than alpha , such that h ( k ) attract beta . kitahara begin with relativize minimality ( chomsky 1993 ) violation , as in ( vius ) , and superiority condition violation , as in ( viius ) . ( vius ) * john seem it be t ( john ) certain to be here . ( viius ) * what do you persuade whom to buy t ( what ) ? the mlc account naturally for these fact : in ( vius ) , " it " be closer than " john " to the matrix t , and thus block attraction of " john " ; in ( viius ) , " whom " be closer to the matrix cp than " what " and thus block attraction of " what " . next , kitahara consider proper bind condition violation , like that show in ( x ) . ( ix ) proper bind condition traces must be bind . ( x ) * which picture of t ( who ) do you wonder who john likes t ( which picture of t ( who ) ) ? he argue that a proper bind condition analysis of ( x ) be no longer available in minimalist approach . this condition can no longer apply at s - structure , since s - structure have be eliminate from the model , and lf reconstruction of " picture of t ( who ) " could create a configuration in which the trace of " who " be bind . instead , kitahara offer an mlc solution . he observe that ( x ) involve two violation of the minimal link condition . first , " which " be closer to the embed cp than " who " and thus block the attraction of " who " ( note that " picture of who " would be necessarily carry along with " which " to the embed cp by an independent convergence condition ) . second , give the illegitimate attraction of " who " to the embed cp , " who " become closer to the matrix cp than " which " , and thus block the attraction of " which " . assume that ( xus ) a derivation employ a greater number of illegitimate step induce a greater degree of deviance ( p72 ) the derivation in ( xius ) below be prefer over ( x ) because ( x ) involve two violation of the mlc wherea ( xius ) involve only one . ( xius ) ? ? who do you wonder which picture of t ( who ) john likes t ( which picture of who ) ? kitahara extend this analysis to cross versus nest dependency datum . ( xiius ) nest dependency condition ( pesetsky 1987 ) if two " wh " - trace dependency overlap , one must contain the other . the paradigm case be those in ( xiv ) and ( xv ) : ( xiv ) ? ? what do you wonder whom john persuade t ( whom ) to buy t ( what ) ? ( xv ) ? * whom do you wonder what john persuade t ( whom ) to buy t ( what ) ? in ( xiv ) , kitahara observe , the mlc be disobey once , in the raise of " what " over " whom " to the matrix cp . in ( xv ) , on the other hand , the mlc be disobey twice , once in the raise " what " over " whom " to the embed cp , and a second time in the raise of " whom " over " what " to the matrix cp . thus , follow ( ix ) , the grammar prefer ( xiv ) over ( xv ) . finally , kitahara consider scramble and topicalization in german and japanese , demonstrate that certain restriction on these phenomenon can also receive an mlc treatment . he assume that both phenomenon be feature drive , and that the scramble / topicalization feature of the attract element be interpretable , and thus remains accessible to the computation after check . the basic pattern consider be that it be not possible to scramble an element from a constituent and then scramble the remnant , however it be possible to then topicalize the remnant . german example be provide in ( xvus ) and ( xvius ) : ( xvus ) scramble + scramble of remnant * dass [ t ( da buch ) zu lesen ] keiner [ da buch ] t ( t ( da buch ) zu lesen ) that ( the book ) to read no one the book ( the book to read ) versucht hat try have " that no one have try to read the book " ( xvius ) scramble + topicalization of remnant [ t ( da buch ) zu lesen ] hat keiner [ da buch ] t ( t ( da buch ) zu lesen ) ( the book ) to read have no one the book ( the book to read ) versucht try " no one have try to read the book " under these assumption , ( xvus ) violate the mlc twice , first by scramble the dp " that book " over the closer vp " that book to read " , and second by scramble the vp " t ( that book ) to read " over the now-closer dp " that book " . ( xvius ) , on the other hand , do not violate the mlc at all . assume that the feature that drive topicalization and scramble be distinct , " that book " would be the closest available element with the scramble feature to the attract head , since " that book to read " would have a topicalization feature rather than a scramble feature . similarly , the vp " t ( that book ) to read " be the closest available element to be attract for topicalization , since " that book " have a scramble feature not a topicalization feature . in chapter four , kitahara discuss the difference in deviance between derivation which involve one violation of the mlc by a wh-element . he provide the generalization in ( xviius ) , and example in ( xix ) - ( xxius ) ( p83 - 85 ) : ( xviius ) an mlc violation involve adjunct , subject , or quasus object [ i . e . " how many " phrase ] be far more severe than an mlc violation involve object . ( xix ) adjunct * how do you wonder [ whether john fix the car t ( how ) ? ( xx ) subject * what do you wonder [ whether t ( what ) be fix t ( what ) ] ? ( xxius ) quasus - object * how many pound do you wonder [ whether john weigh t ( how many ) ] ? ( xxius ) object ? ? what do you wonder [ whether john fix t ( what ) ] ? in order to explain this phenomenon , kitahara propose the follow condition ( p90 ) : ( xxiius ) chain formation condition an application of move form 1 or > 1 chain ( s ) only if it be legitimate ( = violation-free ) and assume that trace may be attract ( at least covertly ) . he claim that the illegitimate wh-movement in ( xix ) - ( xxius ) do not form a chain . therefore , the wh-element will not be able to be interpret at lf , cause the derivation to crash . this account for the ungrammaticality of ( xix ) - ( xxius ) . in ( xxius ) , however , kitahara claim that the formal feature of the trace of " what " raise covertly to check accusative case , and that it be this movement that save the derivation . ( notice that covert movement of the trace of the wh-element in ( xxiv ) - ( xxvus ) will not occur . adjunct and quasus object do not check case , and subject move overtly to check case . ) accord to the chain formation condition , the movement of the formal feature of the object , be legitimate , may form one or more chain ; in particular , it form a chain between the raise position of " what " in the matrix cp and the merge position of " what " . thus , the derivation can be interpret at lf , and have only the status of a mlc violation . kitahara extend the analysis to ( xxiv ) . ( xxiv ) " where " / " when " adjunct ? ? where / when do you wonder [ whether john fix the car t ( where / when ) ? he assume that these adjunct be the complement of a null preposition . therefore , the formal feature of the trace of " where " / " when " must raise covertly to check case with the null preposition , again create the necessary chain between the move position of " where " / " when " in the matrix cp and its merge position . this chapter conclude the book . although this book stand solidly on the foundation of previous minimalist syntactic research , it remains accessible to those who be not well-verse in minimalist theory . it provide very clear explanation of the detail of previous minimalist approach , as well as kitahara 's own proposal . furthermore , all relevant derivation be present step-by - step , at a pace design to accommodate the non-specialist . thus , it present a good opportunity for those interest to learn about research and issue in minimalist syntax . those who be familiar with minimalist research should find this to be an interest rework and application of 1995 - style minimalism . anyone convince by recent discussion of computational complexity and local economy ( see collin 1997 , johnson & lappin 1997 , yang 1997 , among other ) , however , will be dissatisfy with the approach , as it continue to rely on global economy condition . since , of course , not everyone have be convince by the discussion , this be more a note to prospective reader than a criticism . on a similar note , a crucial assumption for the analysis be that the grammar can count , which be controversial , but not obviously false . note that , regard cyclicity , the notoriously problematic case of head - movement , which chomsky ( 1995 ) manage to incorporate into " cyclicity " requirement ( force it to apply before introduction of another head into the derivation ) , again fall outside the analysis of " cyclicity " . since all head - movement will require an operation of replacement , there be no longer any clear way to force it to apply before another head be introduce . perhap more serious be the reformulation of the strong feature condition . the various strong feature condition of previous minimalist approach be simplify in the first chapter to ( ius ) above , repeat in ( xxv ) below . ( xxv ) strong feature condition spell - out apply to sigma only if sigma contain no category with a strong feature . the difficulty with this formulation be that it render the strong feature condition an s - structure condition and thus anti - minimalist , since minimalism take great pain to eliminate all s - structure condition . notice that it would be trivial to reformulate all previous s - structure condition in a manner parallel to ( xxv ) - - " spell - out apply to sigma only if sigma contain no trace which be not bind " - - thus reduce the minimalist claim that s - structure be redundant to a matter of terminology only . furthermore , in the last chapter , a further condition involve strong feature have to be introduce in order to rule out certain noncyclic derivation . this additional condition , give in ( xxvus ) , be essentially a weaken version of chomsky 's ( 1995 ) formulation of the strong feature condition . ( xxvus ) alpha and beta cannot be concatenate if some sublabel of alpha and some sublabel of beta be both strong ( p95 ) thus , the propose simplification of the strong feature condition actually result in posit two condition , one of which be an s - structure condition . another seemingly anti - minimalist proposal be the chain formation condition , give in ( xxiius ) above and repeat in ( xxvius ) below . ( xxvius ) chain formation condition an application of move form 1 or > 1 chain ( s ) only if it be legitimate ( = violation-free ) minimalist theory claim that the computation of human language meet the inclusiveness condition , i . e . no new element be add during the course of the computation . instead , the computation arrange and rearrange item select from the lexicon . therefore , under minimalist theory , the notion of a " chain " as an independent entity do not exist , as it would have to be add during the course of the derivation , violate inclusiveness . instead , " chain " be simply a convenient term use to refer to the identical element in a derivation . the chain formation condition , however , crucially require chain to have an independent existence in the computation . these comment aside , this book do represent a step forward in the minimalist research program . kitahara be able to derive several assumption / principle which previously could only be stipulate . the account of optionality in icelandic object shift be more satisfy than the " optional strong feature " approach , although , as be note , it do raise some cross - linguistic consideration ( e . g . french ) . the systematic application of the minimal link condition to datum capture by various other condition be sorely need , if only to confirm the intuition that an mlc would have equal , or superior , empirical coverage . finally , the analysis of " wh " extraction asymmetry present in the final chapter , be one of the few minimalist treatment of this phenomenon . all in all , the reader will find this book to be very well consider , clearly explain , and thought-provoke . biography julie anne legate be a phd student in the department of linguistic and philosophy at mit . her research interest include syntactic theory and irish syntax . bibliography chomsky , noam . ( 1991 ) some note on economy of derivation and representation . in principle and parameter in comparative grammar , ed . robert freidin , 417-454 . mit press , cambridge , mass . chomsky , noam . ( 1993 ) a minimalist program for linguistic theory . in the view from build 20 , ed kenneth hale & samuel jay keyser , 1-52 . mit press , cambridge , mass . chomsky , noam . ( 1994 ) bbe phrase structure . mit occasional paper in linguistic 5 . mitwpl , cambridge , mass . chomsky , noam . ( 1995 ) the minimalist program . mit press , cambridge , mass . collin , chri . ( 1997 ) local economy . mit press , cambridge , mass . epstein , samuel d . ( 1992 ) derivational constraint on a ' - chain formation . linguistic inquiry 23 , 135-159 . johnson , david & shalom lappin . ( 1997 ) a critique of the minimalist program . linguistic and philosophy . yang , charle d . ( 1997 ) minimal computation . master 's thesis , department of electrical engineer and computer science , mit . - - - - - - end of forward message
