Subject: new book : historical linguistic

new titles from john benjamins publishing historical linguistics : historical linguistics 1993 . selected papers from the 11th international conference on historical linguistics , los angeles , 16-20 august 1993 . henn andersen ( ed . ) 1995 x , 460 pp . current issue in linguistic theory , 124 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 578 8 price : us $ 110 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 3627 5 price : hfl . 190 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com this volume contain a selection of papers from the 11th international conference on historical linguistic ; among them be a few present at the workshop on typology and parameter organize during the conference . the 34 papers discuss a variety of topic , reflect the latest development in research in historical linguistics and cover a wide range of language . contribution by : andrew allen ; gregory s . anderson ; julie auger ; laurel brinton & dieter stein ; v = edt bubenik ; keat burridge ; concepcus = f3n company ; c . jac conradie ; thoma d . craven & luciano giannellus ; naomus cull ; andreus danchev ; bridget drinka ; richard epstein ; jadranka gvozdanovic ; kaoru horie ; masataka ishikawa ; bernard jacquinod ; dieter kastovsky ; ritva laury ; leena l = f6fstedt , silvium luraghus ; maria manoliu - manea ; jaap van marle ; ana maria martin ; chantal meli ; robert w . murray ; johanna nichol ; jairo nune ; claudium parodus ; betty s . philip ; susan pintzuk ; pieter van reenen & lene schosler ; elke ronneberger - sibold ; nigel vincent . comparative indo-european linguistics . an introduction robert s . p . beeke 1995 xxius , 376 pp . us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 504 4 price : us $ 75 . 0 paper : 1 55619 505 2 price : $ 24 . 95 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 2150 2 price : hfl . 125 , - - paper : 90 272 2151 0 price : hfl . 50 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com this book give a comprehensive introduction to comparative indo - european linguistic , the first to appear in english . it start with a presentation of the language of the family ( from english and the other germanic language , the celtic and slavic language , latin , greek and sanskrit through armenian and albanian ) and a discussion of the culture and origin of the indo - european , the speaker of the indo - european proto-language , who be consider to have live in what be today the ukraine . the book give an introduction into the nature of language change and the method of reconstruction of older language stage , with many example ( from the indo - european language ) . a full description be give of the sound change , which make it possible to follow the origin of the different indo - european language step by step . this be follow by a discussion of the development of all the morphological category of proto - indo - european . the book present the latest in scholarly insight , like the laryngeal and glottalic theory , accentuation , the ablaut pattern and these be systematically integrate into the treatment . while the book present a large amount of material and discuss many principle and the relevant terminology , it be write in a very readable and lucid style . use of the book be facilitate by an appendix on phonetics , a glossary , full index , and an extensive bibliography . the book can be use as a first introduction to the field , and at the same time bring the reader to the current moment of research . zur geschichte der deutschen sprache . new edition with an introductory article by kurt r . jankowsky wilhelm scherer 1995 lxius , 246 pp . amsterdam classic in linguistic , 16 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 770 5 price : us $ 97 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 1994 x price : hfl . 170 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com wilhelm scherer ( 1841-1886 ) have gain wide recognition for his extraordinary accomplishment in linguistics as well as in literary study . hbe first and most important contribution to the development of linguistic science be his monumental work of 508 page zur geschichte der deutschen sprache , publish in 1868 . hbe state objective be " to subject all aspect of the germanic grammar to a new treatment . " while such a word sound rather modest , the actual implementation in his book , if view within the framework of his time , may very appropriately be call revolutionary . he break with august schleicher 's distinction between 'd evelopment ' ( in prehistorical time ) and 'd ecay ' ( in historical time ) in the history of language and replace it with his notion of continuous , uninterrupt development . hbe survey of the relevant literature of his time be almost exhaustive , and his finding serve as the solid step stone for his own advance . to facilitate read , the editor have supply an index of name ( with life date ) , a complete list of the literature refer to by scherer as well as an introduction to scherer 's life and his general scholarly achievement . towards a history of the basque language jose ignacio hualde , joseba a . lakarra & r . l . trask ( ed . ) 1995 365 pp . current issue in linguistic theory , 131 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 585 0 price : us $ 90 . 0 rest of world : cloth : 90 272 3634 8 price : hfl . 150 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com question relate to the origin and history of the basque language spark considerable interest , since it be the only survive pre - indo - european language in western europe . however , until now , there be no readily available source in english provide answer to these question or give an overview of past and current research in this area . this book be intend to partly fill this void . the book contain both state-of - the-art papers which summarize our knowledge about particular area of basque historical linguistics , and article present new hypothesis and point of view base on hard evidence and careful analysis . all contributor to this volume have demonstrate expertise in the topic within basque historical linguistics that their chapter address . two classical article by the late lui michelena be include in english translation . in addition , the book include study on diachronic phonology , morphology and syntax . the relation of basque to other language be also investigate in a couple of chapter . english historical linguistics 1994 . papers from the 8th international conference on english historical linguistics ( 8 icehl , edinburgh , 19-23 september 1994 ) 1996 viius , 403 pp . current issue in linguistic theory , 135 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 590 7 price : us $ 84 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 3639 9 price : hfl . 150 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com this volume offer a selection of 19 papers from those read at the 8th international conference on english historical linguistic . the topic discuss span the whole history of english from the common germanic period to the present century . the book also include , as appropriate to the conference venue , a number of papers on the aspect of the historical development of scot and scottish english . historical pragmatics . pragmatic developments in the history of english andrea h . jucker ( ed . ) 1995 xvus , 624 pp . pragmatic & beyond new sery , 35 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 328 9 price : us $ 97 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 5047 2 price : hfl . 170 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com until very recently , pragmatic have be restrict to the analysis of contemporary speak language while historical linguistics have study historical text and language change in a decontextualize way . this have now radically change and scholar from around the world be try to build a new theoretical framework that integrate recent advance both in pragmatic and in historical linguistics . this volume , which contain 22 original title , start with an introduction that be both a state-of - the-art account of historical pragmatic and a programmatic statement of its future potential and its different subfield . part i contain seven pragmaphilological papers that deal with historical text and their interpretation by pay close attention to the communicative context of these text . the second and third part comprise papers in diachronic pragmatic . the ten papers of part ii take a linguistic form as their start point , e . g . particular lexical item or syntactic construction , and study their pragmatic function at different time ( diachronic form-to - function mapping ) , while the four papers of part iii take a particular pragmatic function as their start point . e . g . discourse strategy or politeness , and study their linguistic realisation at different time ( diachronic function-to - form mapping ) . contribution by : c . allen ; u . bach ; h . bergrer ; e . bern = e1rdez & p . tejada ; m . fludernik : g . fritz ; w . h = fcllen ; a . jacob & a . jucker ; r . kopytko ; s . kryk - kastovsky ; j . lennard ; j . de lima ; p . navarro - errastus ; t , nevalainen & h . raumolin - brunberg ; n . onodera ; g . ronberg , s . schwenter & e . traugott ; i . taavistainen ; t . virtanen ; k . wale ; s . w = e5rvik ; r . watt semitic and indo-european : the principal etymologies . with observations on afro-asiatic saul levin 1995 xxius , 514 pp . current issue in linguistic theory , 129 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 583 4 price : us $ 97 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 3632 1 price : hfl . 170 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com this volume present the key example of morphological correspondence between indo - european and semitic language , afford by noun , verbal root , pronoun , preposition , and numeral . it focus be on share morphology embody in the cognate vocabulary . the fact that be bring out in this volume do not fit comfortably within either the indo - europeanist ' or the semitist ' conception of the prehistoric development of their language . nonetheless they be so fundamental that many would take them for evidence of a single original source , ' proto - nostratic ' . in this book , however , it be consider unsettle whether proto - ie and proto - semitic have a common forerunner . but the ie - semitic combination testify at least to prehistoric language community in truly intimate contact . question ? contact bernie keck email : service @ benjamin . com
