Subject: muc - 7 call for participation

* * * call for participation * * * seventh message understanding system evaluation and message understanding conference ( muc - 7 ) evaluation : 2 - 6 march 1998 conference : april 1998 washington , d . c . area sponsor by : the human language system tipster text program of the defense advance research project agency information technology office ( darpa / ito ) the message understand conference have provide on ongo forum for assess the state of the art and practice in text analysis technology and for exchange information on innovative computational technique in the context of fully implement system that perform realistic task . the evaluation have provide researcher and potential sponsor and customer with a quantitative means to appreciate the strength and weakness of the technology , and the result report on at the conference have spark customer interest in the potential utility of the technology . the seventh message understand conference ( muc - 7 ) will provide an opportunity for both new and experience muc participant to participate in a flexible evaluation , suit to development need and ability . it will provide : * opportunity to select among a variety of task : name entity ( ne ) , coreference ( co ) , template element ( te ) , template relationship ( tr ) and scenario template ( st ) . * two task for evaluate component technology ( ne and co ) , which use standard generalize markup language ( sgml ) as output format * redesign information extraction ( ie ) task , with two domain-independent subtask ( te and tr ) separate from domain-dependent subtask ( st ) . * emphase of st task on portability and on minimize human resource require to participate in the evaluation . * three experimental track to explore new datum set and task . participation in muc - 7 be actively seek from both new and veteran organization . with the new and redesign evaluation task , muc - 7 offer a good opportunity for organization to try out new idea for handle nlp problem that be of both scientific and practical interest without have to participate in the entire range of task . the conference itself will consist primarily of presentation and discussion of innovative technique , system design , and test result . there will also be an opportunity for participant to demo their evaluation system . attendance at the conference be limit to evaluation participant and to guest invite by the darpa tipster text program . a conference proceedings , include test result , will be publish . schedule : 1 july 97 : application deadline for participation 15 july 97 : release of ne , co , te , tr , and example st train datum and scorer 8 september 97 : release of dry run st task definition , train datum , and scorer 29 sept - 3 oct 97 : muc - 7 dry run ( all participant ) 6 february 98 : release of formal test st task definition , train datum , and scorer 2 - 6 march 98 : muc - 7 formal run 7 - 9 april 98 : 7th message understand conference ( tentative date ) data and task description : the text to be use for system development and test be news service article from the new york time new service , supply by the linguistic data consortium ( ldc ) [ ldc @ ldc . upenn . edu ] . train , dry run , and test datum for all the task be extract from a corpus of approximately 158 , 0 article . set of article to be use in the muc - 7 evaluation will be distribute vium ftp upon payment of a one time fee of $ 100 and upon sign of a user agreement for the use of these text . the user agreement can be retrieve from the ldc catalog ( evaluation agreement ) . the url for the ldc home page be : http : / / www . ldc . upenn . edu . five separate evaluation will be conduct as part of muc - 7 . the definition of these evaluation have be work out since late 1996 by member of the muc - 7 plan committee . the evaluation may be view as capture the result of text analysis at various level of aggregation of information : * name entity ( ne ) require only that the system under evaluation identify each bite of pertinent information in isolation from all other . * coreference ( co ) require connect all reference to " identical " entity . * template element ( te ) require group entity attribute together into entity " object . " * template relationship ( tr ) require identify relationship between template element . * scenario template ( st ) require identify instance of a task-specific event and identify event attribute , include entity that fill some role in the event ; the overall information content be capture vium interlink " object . " * experimental track use new datum set be variant of the ne task . the task definition be the same as for the basic ne task , but the text be different . * experimental track involve a new task be a simplify version of the te task . key thing to note about each evaluation task : * ne cover name organization , people , and location , along with date / time expression and monetary and percentage expression ; it require production of sgml tag as output . * co cover noun phrase ( common and proper ) and personal pronoun that be " identical " in their reference ; it require production of sgml tag as output ; the tag for corefer string form " equivalance " class , which be use for score . * te cover organization , person , and artifact , which be capture in the form of template " object " consist of a predefine set of attribute . * tr cover relationship among template element , include location and time relationship , which be capture in the form of template " relation " consist of a relationship and the template element participate in that relationship . tr be a new task for muc - 7 . * st cover a particular scenario , which be keep secret until one month prior to test in order to focus on system portability ; however , the generalize structure of a scenario template be predefine , and example scenario be available for participant to examine . this task be domain dependent . * task for the experimental track be derive from ne and te . there be a world wide web site that allow automate test follow the rule of muc - 6 . it will be of particular value to new participant . the website be password protect and you need to be license to access the acl / dci disk from the ldc to obtain a password from chinchor @ gso . saic . com . muc - 6 article be take from the acl / dci disk . an anonymous ftp site will be available for download muc - 7 relate material . this cfp and the muc - 7 participant agreement be available to the public from the ftp site . each participant ( after sign the ldc user agreement and a muc - 7 participation agreement ) will receive a password to download the muc - 7 datum , definition , and score software at the release time note above . the url of the website be http : / / muc . saic . com . the ftp site be ftp . muc . saic . com . test protocol and evaluation criteria : muc - 7 participant may elect to do one or any combination of task and experimental track . participant will have access to share resource such as the train text and annotation / template , task documentation , and score software . all muc - 7 participant be encourage to participate in the dry run and take advantage of material available . the formal test will be conduct during the first week in march . it will be carry out by the participant at their own site in accordance with a prepare test procedure and the result submit to the ftp site for official score with the software prepare by saic for muc - 7 . test set use for the evaluation will consist of 100 text , with subset for some of the task . there will be different datum set for the dry run and the formal test . system will be evaluate use recall and precision metric ( all task ) , f - measure ( all task ) , and error-base metric ( all task except co ) . the computation of these metric be base on the score category of correct , partial , incorrect , spurious , miss , and noncommittal . muc - 7 participant will be able to familiarize themselve with the evaluation criterion through usage of the evaluation software , which will be release along with the train datum . instructions for responding to the call for participation : organization within and outside the u . s . be invite to respond to this call for participation . by the time of the actual test phase of the evaluation , system must be able to accept text without manual preprocess , process them without human intervention , and output annotation ( ne , co ) or template ( te , tr , st ) in the expect format . organization should plan on allocate approximately two person-month of effort for participation in the evaluation and conference . it be understand that organization will vary with respect to experience with sgml text annotation , information extraction , domain expertise / engineer , resource , contractual demand / expectation , etc . recognition of such factor will be make in any analysis of the result . organization wish to participate in the evaluation and conference must respond by july 1 , 1997 by submit a short statement of interest vium email and a sign copy of the muc - 7 participation agreement vium surface mail . 1 . the statement of interest should be submit vium email to marsh @ aic . nrl . navy . mil and should include the follow : a . evaluation task ( s ) ( choose one or more ) * name entity * coreference * template element * template relationship * scenario template b . primary point of contact . please include name , surface and email address , and phone and fax number . c . doe your site have a copy of the muc - 6 proceedings ? 2 . the participation agreement can be download from the anonymous ftp site ( ftp . muc . saic . com ) . a sign copy should be send by surface mail to elaine marsh , nrl - code 5512 , 4555 overlook ave . sw , washington , d . c . 20375-5337 , usa . if some question cannot be defer until the deadline for respond to this call for participation have pass , you may send them by email to elaine marsh ( marsh @ aic . nrl . navy . mil ) , with copies to ralph grishman ( grishman @ c . nyu . edu ) and nancy chinchor ( chinchor @ gso . saic . com ) to ensure that your message receive a timely response from one of us . muc - 7 planning committee : ralph grishman , new york university , program co-chair elaine marsh , naval research laboratory , program co-chair chinatsu aone , system research and application loi child , lockheed martin nancy chinchor , science application international jim cowie , new mexico state university rob gaizauska , university of sheffield megumus kameyama , sri international tom keenan , u . s . department of defense boyan onyshkevych , u . s . department of defense martha palmer , university of pennsylvanium beth sundheim , nccosc nrad marc vilain , mitre ralph weischedel , bbn system and technology
