Subject: call for paper : dgfs meet 1998

call for papers as part of the annual meet of the german linguistic society ( deutsche gesellschaft fuer sprachwissenschaft ) , to be hold in halle ( saale ) , germany , march 4 / 6 1988 , there will be a workshop ( arbeitsgruppe ) on the follow topic : the linguistic analysis of intercultural communication in the last thirty year research on intercultural communication have attract increase scientific attention not only as a result of social development but also due to the grow interdisciplinary cooperation between different discipline such as cultural anthropology , ethnology , sociology , and linguistics ( c . f . ehlich 1996 ) . a central topic of the linguistic analysis of intercultural communication be determine by the experience that the use of a common language system do not guarantee mutual understand . therefore , the theoretical conception of intercultural communication ( either in everyday or in institutional situation ) be characterize by misunderstanding ( gumperz ) . analyse of the mediation of intercultural competence show that both contrastive and interactive investigation into intercultural communication be important in order to answer the question on the contextualization of speech action and on their universal or culture specific characteristic . only recently , have the innovative potential of intercultural communication start to attract particular attention ( c . f . koole & ten thije 1994 ) . it have become clear that research into intercultural communication should take an interdisciplinary perspective and require reflection on traditional linguistic category of linguistic description in order to see which new discursive form be facilitate by intercultural communication . the specific question to be adress in this workshop be whether the linguistic involvement in intercultural research have result in the extension and enhancement of new linguistic category and research method . reflexion on this issue should focus on topic like procedure of assertain understand ( verstdndnissicherung ) ( c . f . metacommunication ) , pragmatic universal ( c . f . politeness ) , contrastive analysis of speech action and text , linguistic form of perspectivity or culture comparison . reference ehlich , k . ( 1996 ) interkulturelle kommunikation . in : h . goebl et alius ( ed . ) kontaktlinguistik . ein internationale handbuch zeitgenvssischer forschung . berlin / new york : de gruyter , 920 / 931 . koole , t . & j . d . ten thije ( 1994 ) the construction of intercultural discourse . amsterdam : rodopus . paper relevant to this topic be invite . paper should take 40 minute , to be follow by 20 minute of discussion . a one-page abstract should be send ( preferably by e-mail to the organizer ( adress below ) by september 1 , 1997 . - - dr . kristin buehrig germanisch seminar der universitdt hamburg jan d . ten thije , professur interkulturelle kommunikation technische universitaet chemnitz , 09107 chemnitz tel . : . . 49 . 371 . 531 . 2966 ; sekr . : . . . 4533 ; fax : . . . 2933 e-mail : jan . tenthije @ phil . tu-chemnitz . de http : / / www . tu-chemnitz . de / phil / ikk
