Subject: sociolinguistic symposium 12 update

sociolinguistics symposium 12 at the institute of education university of london 20 bedford way london wc1 from thursday 26th march ( mid-day ) to saturday 28th march ( mid-day ) 1998 summary programme plenary colloquium paper in parallel session short ' work in progress ' report poster presentation publisher display social event british sign language interpretation available to ss12 participant who request this in advance . academic organise committee professor jenny cheshire , queen mary & westfield college , university of london ; professor jennifer coate , roehampton institute london ; dr penelope gardner - chloro , birkbeck college , university of london ; dr ben rampton & celium robert , thame valley university ; euan reid , institute of education , university of london . ; professor brian street , king 's college , university of london . plenaries the follow speaker have accept invitation to give plenary presentation : title be in some case provisional , as they be for the colloquium list below . professor jan blommaert ( university of antwerp / international pragmatic association ) : reconstruct the sociolinguistic image of africa : grassroot write in shaba , congo . professor debbie cameron ( university of strathclyde , glasgow ) , good to talk ? the discourse and practice of communication skill . professor penny eckert ( stanford university ) variation , style & identity . professor susan gal ( university of chicago ) language ideology and linguistic boundary : the semiotic of differentiation . colloquia will include the follow maintain indigenous language , with special reference to latin america - state plan v grass - root initiative : jane freeland ( portsmouth ) & rosaleen howard - malverde ( liverpool ) contact : jane . freeland @ port . ac . uk speech representation & institutional discourse : stef slembrouck ( gent ) & mike baynham ( sydney ) contact : stef . slembrouck @ rug . ac . be the sociolinguistic of computer - mediate communication : simeon yate ( open university ) contact : s . j . yate @ open . ac . uk oral narrative across context & culture shoshana blum - kulka ( hebrew university , jerusalem ) & alexandra georgakopolou ( king 's college , london ) contact : . mskcusb @ pluto . mscc . hujus . ac . il or alexandra . georgakopoulou @ kcl . ac . uk . the organiser be also discuss further idea for colloquium on gerontolinguistic , on the sociolinguistic of sign language , on language & multimodality , on academic literacy , on language & sexuality and on code - mix and code - switch . in all case we be encourage maximum interactivity , and openness to unsolicit contribution . contact ben . rampton @ tvu . ac . uk further details on programme we intend to complete the programme-plan as far as we can by mid - november 1997 , and to let speaker have detail at that time . the full programme will then be send by post to all register participant , along with local travel detail , by january 1998 . [ the text of this post be also available in print form from our conference office - see below . ] our website will be set up in the next few day , and will be update regularly with programme and participant detail : http : / / www . ioe . ac . uk / cc / ss12 call for papers the academic organise committee invite offer of papers in any area of sociolinguistic . our intention for ss12 be to accept rather fewer papers than at some recent meeting in the series . the offer should indicate clearly if they be for the regular 35 - minute slot ( ' paper ' : where presenter will be encourage to speak for no more than c20 minute , leave c15 minute for question and discussion ) , for the shorter 15 minute slot ( ' report ' on work in progress ) , for ' colloquium ' where preliminary contact should have be make with convenor , or for ' poster ' , where a specify display space , and if necessary time-slot will be offer . the criterion for selection will be : originality , significance , estimate contribution to conceptual development of the field , lucidity . all submission , ( except those for the colloquium , which we need by 31st july 1997 ) should arrive at our conference office by 31st august 1997 they will be review anonymously by member of the committee during september and october 1997 , with the help of colloquium convenor where appropriate . how to submit proposals send 2 copy by post ( not email , please ) : one of these only should have your name , address etc on it . your proposal should consist of the follow ( i ) the title of the abstract , along with up to 5 keyword ; ( ius ) the category of proposal you be make : either a 35 minute paper for one of the parallel session , a 15 minute report on work in progress , a contribution to one of the colloquium , or a poster presentation : the organiser may propose that your presentation be include in a different category . ( iius ) an abstract of 200-300 word , strictly limit to one double-space page ; ( iv ) on one copy only all of the above , with , in addition : author 's name , postal address , telephone & fax number , and email address wherever available ; where a private address be give , also indicate your institutional affiliation , and your status - academic staff , student , other . all of the above should be send , separate from any administrative or registration enquiry , to the conference officer , institute of education , 20 bedford way , london wc1h oal . please mark the outside of the envelope ' ss12 abstract ' , and send it in good time to meet our submission receipt deadline of 31st july 1997 ( for colloquium papers ) or 31st august 1997 ( everything else ) . costs early symposium fee - 120 pound sterl ( for booking receive by december 31 , 1997 ) standard symposium fee - 140 pound sterl leat symposium fee - 160 pound sterl ( for booking receive after february 27 , 1998 ) student / unwage symposium fee - 95 pound sterl ( on production of satisfactory evidence of status , and only for booking receive by december 31 ) day symposium fee thursday 26th march - 45 pound sterl friday 27th march - 90 pound sterl saturday 28th march - 45 pound sterl . leat & day booking be subject to availability of place after the standard book period end on february 27 1998 . scholarships a limit number of scholarship be available , on a competitive basis , for student whose papers be accept at ss12 . these scholarship will cover the conference fee & accommodation cost for two night in the student hall of residence , if you do n't live in london . you will need to find travel cost from other source . submit your abstract in the usual way , but add a letter indicate that you wish to apply for a scholarship , with a support letter from the institution where you be study . registration the form below be only about registration for the symposium itself , administer by the institute of education 's conference office payment of the appropriate symposium fee be obligatory , and will entitle you to all document for the meet ( programme , abstract of papers , participant list ) , and to a badge give admission to session , tea / coffee etc at break , and buffet lunch . conference registration form please complete the follow , either return it electronically to the conference office ( c . bird @ ioe . ac . uk ) , or print it off and send it with your sterl cheque . insert the personal detail as you would like them to appear on the participant ' list & on the ss12 badge we shall prepare for you . enter one person only on each form : your title : ( mr / ms / dr / prof / . . . . . ) your family name : your other name ( s ) : your institution & departmental address : phone and fax number for communication ( say if work or private ) : your email address : address for correspondence if different from your institution : please reserve a conference place for me : date of book . . . . . either for the whole meet @ early discount rate of 120 pound or @ standard rate of 140 pound or @ late rate of 160 pound or for one or two day thursday 26 / 3 @ 45 pound friday 27 / 3 @ 90 pound saturday 28 / 3 @ 45 pound complete registration formson paper , and sterl cheque ( non-sterl cheque add 10 % please ) payable to ' institute of education - ss12 ' , should be send to the conference office ( ss12 ) , institute of education , 20 bedford way , london wc1h 0al , uk . book enquiry can be make to the conference officer there , cathy bird ( c . bird @ ioe . ac . uk ) , tel : + 44 . 171 . 612 . 6017 . . . . fax : + 44 . 171 . 612 . 6402 . she will also pass on academic enquiry . accommodation booking can be make through hotelscene , a reservation service offer discount accommodation with a range of hotel etc within a few minute walk from the institute of education in the bloomsbury district of london . hotelscene information will be send on receipt of registration form . single room and breakfast price will be from about 20 pound per night in a student hall of residence , to about 100 pound per night in a first class hotel , less per head in double room . euan reid culture , communication and society institute of education university of london 20 bedford way london wc1h 0al tel : + 44 171 612 6524 / fax : + 44 171 612 6177
