Subject: workshop in computationally-intensive methods in quantitative linguistics

humanist discussion group , vol . 11 , no . 125 . centre for compute in the humanity , king 's college london < http : / / www . princeton . edu / ~ mccarty / humanist / > < http : / / www . kcl . ac . uk / humanities / cch / humanist / > workshop in computationally-intensive methods in quantitative linguistics humanity advance technology and information institute department of statistic university of glasgow , uk 11 , 12 september 1997 early registration please note that the early registration deadline have be extend until 30 june for this workshop . payment receive after this date will be subject to a gbp50 increase in the registration fee . to register , complete the form at http : / / www . stats . glum . ac . uk / ~ cimql / regform . html , or download and complete the text version ( regform . txt ) . detail of the workshop follow : in recent year technique from discipline such as computer science , articficial intelligence and statistics have find their way into the page of journal such as the journal of quantitative linguistic , literary and linguistic compute and computer and the humanity . while this influx may bring more advance method of analysis to the field of quantitative linguistics , stylometry and stylistic , the demand upon researcher to understand and use these new technique be great . familiarity with the appropriate software and the ear of a sympathetic expert be pre-requisite without which the technique may seem out of reach to the average researcher . the humanity advance technology and information institute and the department of statistic of the university of glasgow be hence support this practical workshop in computationally - intensive method in quantitative linguistic . the workshop be design to introduce the participant to four such technique in a practical environment . each half-day session will be divide into an introductory session in a lecture theatre and a longer period spend work with software and practical example . all of the speaker have publish papers use the analysis they will present and their aim in this workshop be to enable the participant to return to their home institution able to carry out these technique in the course of their own research . the session and speaker be as follow : deconstruct text with electronic dice : monte carlo method in lexical statistics . harald baayen ; max planck institute for psycholinguistic , nijmegen , the netherland . fitt probability distribution to linguistic datum . deductive and explorative method in synergetic linguistics . reinhard koehler ; university of trier , germany . evolutionary compute and text categorization . richard forsyth ; university of the west of england , bristol , unite kingdom . neural net , principal component analysis , marlowe and shakespeare . thoma merriam ; unite kingdom . the workshop will be hold in the boyd orr build of the university of glasgow , commence on wednesday 10 september with a reception in the hunterian art gallery . the four workshop session will take place on thursday 11 september and friday 12 september . there will also be a half day to loch lomond and the glen goyne whisky distillery on the morn of saturday 13 september . accommodation have be arrange in university accommodation with some en suite facility . tea and coffee , lunch and even meal on 11 and 12 september be include in the registration fee . the registration fee be gbp150 . 0 and gbp100 . 0 for student . for more information about the workshop and to register , please consult the web site at http : / / www . stats . glum . ac . uk / ~ cimql , or send email to the conference organiser at cimql @ stats . glum . ac . uk .
