Subject: esslli ' 98 student session - 2nd cfp

the esslli ' 98 student session august 17-28 , 1998 , saarbruecken , germany deadline : february 15th , 1998 http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / essllus / we be please to announce the student session of the 10th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli ' 98 ) organize by dfki and the university of saarbruecken , germany . and take place at the university of saarbruecken in august 17-28 , 1998 . we welcome submission of papers for presentation at the esslli ' 98 student session and to appear in the proceedings . purpose : this be go to be the third esslli student session and as before , it will provide an opportunity for esslli participant who be student to present their own work in progress and get valuable feedback from other researcher and fellow-student . presentation of creative and innovative idea be encourage . the esslli ' 98 student session welcome submission from student at any level , that be , from undergraduate ( before completion of master degree ) as well as postgraduate ( before completion of phd degree ) . note also that all author of esslli ' 98 papers have to be student , papers co-author by non-student cannot be accept . as in the previous year , the esslli ' 98 student session will consist of paper presentation . the esslli ' 98 student session have its own timeslot in the esslli ' 98 schedule : 60 minute every day for two week , provide that a sufficient number of good quality papers be accept . each presentation will last 30 minute ( include 10 minute of discussion ) . requirements : the student session papers should describe original , unpublish work , complete or in progress that demonstrate insight , creativity , and promise . no previously publish papers should be submit . all topic within the usual six esslli subject area be of interest , without further restriction . the area be as follow : logic , linguistic , computation , logic & linguistic , logic & computation , and linguistic & computation . the accept papers will be publish in the esslli ' 98 student session proceedings , which will be make available along with the reader for the esslli ' 98 course . format of submission : student author should submit an anonymous extend abstract head by the paper title , not to exceed 4 page of length exclusive of reference and a separate identification page ( see below ) . note that the length of the full papers will not be allow to exceed 10 page . since review will be " blind " , the body of the abstract should omit author name and address . furthermore , self-reference that reveal the author ' identity ( e . g . , ` ` we previously show ( smith , 1991 ) . . . ' ' ) should be avoid . instead , use reference like ` ` smith ( 1991 ) previously show . . . ' ' . to identify each paper , a separate identification page should be supply contain the paper 's title , the name ( s ) of the author ( s ) , the author ( s ) ' affiliation ( s ) and complete addresse ( s ) a short ( 5 line ) summary and a specification of the subject area into which the paper belong . the subject area consider be : logic , linguistic , computation , logic & linguistic , logic & computation , and linguistic & computation . media of submission and formatting requirements : the student author should submit their papers electronically to : korbay @ ufal . mff . cunus . cz for any kind of submission a plain ascius text version of the identification page should be send separately by email , use the follow format : title : < title > author : < name of first author > address : < affiliation and address of first author > . . . author : < name of last author > address : < affiliation and address of last author > short summary ( 5 line ) : < summary > subject area ( one of ) : [ logic | linguistic | computation | logic&linguistic | logic&computation | linguistic ] please alway submit the identification page in a separate message . the submission should be in one of the follow format : - self-contain latex source ( the most encourage ) - postscript - ascii text esslli ' 98 student session information : in order to present a paper at the esslli ' 98 student session , every student author have to register as a participant at esslli ' 98 . however , author of accept papers will be eligible for a reduce registration fee . for all information concern esslli ' 98 , please consult the esslli ' 98 web site : http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / essllus / if you have specific question about the student session please contact the chair . important dates : deadline for submission : february 15 , 1998 notification : april 15 , 1998 final version due : may 15 , 1998 esslli ' 98 student session : august 17-28 , 1998 program comittee for the esslli ' 98 student session : ivana kruijff - korbayova ( chair ) korbay @ ufal . mff . cunus . cz ufal mff uk malostranske nam . 25 118 35 praha 1 czech republic tel : ( + 420 - 2 ) 2191 4288 fax : ( + 420 - 2 ) 2191 4309 area co-chair : language and computation : kordulum de kuthy ( university of saarbruecken ) computation : michal soch ( czech technical university ) logic : carlo arece ( university of warwick ) language : berthold crysmann ( university of saarbruecken ) logic & computation : jaime ramo ( technical university of lisabon ) logic and language : - to be confirm
