Subject: tls 1997 conference proceding

the proceedings of the 1997 conference of the texa linguistic society ( the syntax and semantics of predication ) be now available for purchase . the cost for the volume be $ 12 . 0 . please make check payable to the university of texa at austin . please make payment in us dollar . postage and handle have be include in the price show . send payment to : texa linguistic forum department of linguistic the university of texa at austin austin , tx 78712-1196 a table of contents be provide below : interface syntax and semantic : the predication of possession , nancy mae antrium predicative structure of nominal in hpsg , tonus badium subject , predicate , and float quantifier , ralph c . blight a binary analysis of resultative , john bower light verb construction , trp , and multiple feature check theory , eun cho predication time in st ' at ' imcet salish , hamida demirdache the role of predication in the license of purposive adjunct , manuel espanol - echevarrium a modality view of predicate selection in small clause , fransisco gonzalvez garcium thetic / categorical predication and the semantic of existential quantifier , javier gutierrez - rexach optional scramble and predication , helen de hoop on the so - call adjunct predicate in korean , youngjun jang obligatory adjunct , yunsun jung np predicate , dalina kallullus a crosslinguistic perspective on resultative formation , soowon kim and joan male french relative clause as secondary predicate , knud lambrecht strange resultative in german : new evidence for a semantic treatment , anke ludele the structure of cleave and pseudo - cleave sentence , andre meinunger verbal negation and complex predicate formation in polish , adam przepiorkowskus and anna kupsc the role of case check in encode semantic presupposition , lisa reed predicational ' be ' , susan rothstein two pronominal copula and the syntax of non - verbal predication in hebrew , ivy sichel resultative predicate and control , stephen wechsler the asymmetry of predication , edwin william - ralph c . blight department of linguistic , the university of texa at austin http : / / ccwf . cc . utexa . edu / ~ gizzmo / index . html
