Subject: tanlps workshop : final call for paper

tanlps workshop : final call for paper hold at the european conference on machine learn ( ecml ' 98 ) , chemnitz , germany 21-24 april 1998 ( www address : http : / / www . tu-chemnitz . de / informatik / ecml98 / ) . tanlps toward adaptive nlp - drive system : linguistic information , learn method and application 24 april 1998 organize by : r . basilus , m . t . pazienza ( university of roma , tor verga , italy ) since most of its application , from syntactic to semantic , be lexicon drive , systematic and reliable acquisition on a large scale of linguistic information be the real challenge to natural language process ( nlp ) . empiricist view on natural language process and learn have become recently more attractive for a wider research community : computational linguistics , artificial intelligence , psychology then seem to converge on a specific data-orient perspective aim to overcome the traditional knowledge acquisition bottleneck . it have be often note that the limit attention pay by the machine learn community to text and speech datum seem unjustify . it be thus more and more evident that empirical learn of natural language process ( nlp ) can alleviate the nlp main problem by means of a variety of method for the automatic induction of lexical knowledge . lexical knowledge be often hard to compile by hand , and even harder to port and reuse . nlp application system still have a low impact on real world problem , mainly due to the cost relate to reusability and customization of the require lexicon . in particular , change in the domain cause change in the lexical information require in the underlie natural language . empirical , symbolic machine learn method can be perfectly suit for this task like automatic acquisition and adaptation of this knowledge . rule induction , symbolic approach to cluster , lazy learn , and inductive logic program , have be already propose by a grow community that be enter the challenge for theoretical ( i . e . methodological ) and application purpose a variety of technique seem to be combine in order to successfully design realistic inductive system for text process : the target of this research be to define method and design principle for system combine linguistic and lexical learn capability for large scale language process task . this be what we mean with adaptive nlp - drive system . within this research task , some issue can favour a synergistic process between nlp and ml area : the access to large datum set , that be even increase over time , due to the telematic facility available nowaday ; extend the set of typical class of ml problem to other hard case ( particularly dense in the nlp process ) ; add inductive capability to nlp system for task relate to specific application ( i . e . information extraction ) . the propose workshop thus aim at stimulate reasearch and discussion on the follow aspect : - establish result and evidency on the suitability of different ml paradigm on specific level of representation of lexical knowledge ( morphology , syntax , linguistic inference among other ) - comparison of the quantitative approach to lexical acquisition with empirical symbolic method - stimulate discussion on cognitive perspective of some model within a plausible architecture for language process and learn - establish result on the applicability of the extract / induce knowledge within nlp system , with respect to assess evaluation criterion , typical of the ml and language engineer ( le ) area - case study on adaptive nlp system , i . e . effective nlp system integrate linguistic inference with inductive capability ( www kb at cmu , ecran , . . . ) , - critical review of exist experience on adaptive nlp system - establish guideline for an evaluation framework of adaptive nlp system : accuracy of the linguistic process , robustness of the induction process , . . . - promote cooperation among research group in europe and usa to exchange idea , datum and tool for design and experiment architecture for adaptive nlp system relate event a parallel workshop will be also hold in the ecml conference : " text mine " organize by yve kodratoff . although close in intent and topic , the two workshop have a specific " identity " in term of area of research , multidisciplinary aspect and contribution . so , in order to enhance the discussion and the synergistic contribution to the two independent approach , submission cover common problem ( i . e . adaptive datum mine from textual datum ) will undergo a specific review , in cooperation with the other workshop pc . in fact , a join ( half day ) session on specific borderline topic as well as on exist ( hybrid ) system have be plan and a subset of the accept papers will be present there . a particular effort will be ask to author for stress / enhance synergistic aspect . the program committee will suggest guideline to compare / generalize / extend individual contribution in this specific perspective . workshop format : the workshop be expect to cover the whole day . in the first session , apart from an invite talk , we expect to cover methodological issue . paper relate to advance research on suitability of learn paradigm for the different target lexical information will be favour . prototypical example in this area be study on empirical learn of task like pos tag , induction of grammatical information , symbolic learn of word sense disambiguation criterion and lexical semantic information . a panel discussion be expect to close the morn session and focus on principle of suitability for learn paradigm v . lexical level . in the second session we expect to stimulate participant to cover application area , like ir and ie , on original research work that be currently under development in several research centre in europe ( sheffield , tilburg , rome tor verga and torino university ) . a panel discussion on the implication of the adaptive paradigm on exist and potential nlp system will close the workshop . program committee r . basilus ( university of roma , tor verga , italy ) m . craven ( carnegie mellon university , usa ) w . daeleman ( university of tilburg , nederlands ) m . t . pazienza ( university of roma , tor verga , italy ) l . saitta ( university of torino , italy ) c . samuelssonn ( bell lab , at&t , usa ) y . wilk ( university of sheffield , uk ) paper submission : = = = = = = = = = = = = paper should not exceed 3000 word or 6 page . hard copy submission : three copy of the paper should be send to : roberto basilus department of computer science , system and production university of roma , tor verga via dus tor verga 91 roma ( italy ) e-mail : basilus @ info . utovrm . it electronic submission : electronic submission may be in either self-contain postscript or rtf format , to basilus @ info . utovrm . it for each submission - - whether hard copy or electronic - - a separate plain ascius text email message should be send to roberto basilus , contain the follow information : # name : name of first author # title : title of the paper # pages : number of page # files : name of file ( if attachment be submit electronically ) # note : any relevant instruction # keys : keyword # email : email of the first author # abstr : abstract of the paper . . . . . . important date : workshop final call for paper : 20 january 1998 paper due : 20 february 1998 notification of acceptance : 5 march 1998 final version due : 25 march 1998 workshop : 24 april 1998 . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - roberto basilus department of computer science , system and production university of roma , tor verga via dus tor verga 91 roma ( italy ) e-mail : basilus @ info . utovrm . it tel : + 39 - 6 - 7259 7391 fax : + 39 - 6 - 7259 7460 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
