Subject: perceive and perform gender

perceive and perform gender 4th symposium on gender research at kiel university , germany november 12-14 , 1998 the conference focus on the central question : how do social perception alongside the behaviour of individual contribute to the construction of gender ? - how do we interpret and assess woman and man ? - which property and mode of behaviour do we ascribe to each gender ? - are gender difference the result of a gender behaviour , or do they base themselve on gender-stereotype expectation ? this symposium open the possibility of discuss these and other question in a cross-disciplinary and international perspective . keynote speaker prof . dr . jutta allmendinger institut fur soziologie ludwig - maximilian - universitat munchen prof . dr . mahzarin r . banajus department of psychology yale university prof . dr . j . richard hackman department of psychology harvard university prof . dr . thoma laqueur department of history university of californium , berkeley prof . dr . donald g . mackay department of psychology university of californium , lo angele prof . dr . anthony mulac department of communication university of californium , santa barbara prof . dr . rosanne stone advance communication technology laboratory department of radio - tv - film the university of texa call for papers in addition to the presentation by the keynote speaker , we be accept papers on further topic . interest researcher should send us a brief abstract of their propose presentation . this abstract should be write in either english or german and be no longer than one typewrite page . of those papers accept to the symposium , several will be choose for publication in a collection of highlight from the conference . language the symposium will be conduct in both english and german . presentation and comment can be formulate and contribute in either language . deadline proposal abstract must be receive by zif no later than 30 april 1998 . registration deadline for the symposium be 1 october 1998 . fee registration cost dm 120 . this price be reduce to dm 30 for student and umemploy academic . for registration and further information please contact : susanne oelker , m . a . zif centre for interdisciplinary research on women and gender christian albrecht university tel . : ( german code ) ( 0 ) 431 57949 51 olshausenstr . 40 fax : ( german code ) ( 0 ) 57949 50 d-24098 kiel email : < oelker @ zif . uni-kiel . de > germany
