Subject: program : spanish in contact

7th unm conference on ibero - american culture and society : " spanish and portuguese in contact with other language " and 16th conference on spanish in the unite state february 12-14 , 1998 university of new mexico albuquerque , new mexico commemorate the 400th anniversary of the found of the first spanish settlement in new mexico in 1598 information on lodge and registration be available on the web : http : / / www . unm . edu / ~ spanish preliminary program thursday , february 12 1 : 30 - 3 : 30 i - a . codeswitching robin m . fetter ( u new mexico ) , " code switch v . borrow in northern new mexico / southern colorado spanish " ana teresa perez - leroux & erin o'rourke ( pennsylvanium st u ) , " process of intrasentential code-switch in english and spanish bilingual : grammatical constraint versus base language effect " inma mun ~ oa ( u illinoi - urbana / champaign ) , " codeswitch in bilingual conversation : evidence from basque - spanish bilingual " sara rodriguez ( suny - buffalo ) , " social implication for code - switch in a sample of 12 puerto rican speaker live in the unite state " 1 : 30 - 3 : 30 i - b . contact situations leopoldina maria s . araujo ( belem , brazil ) , " portugue de contato de um povo indigena da amazonium brasileira " jurgen heye ( pontificium u catolica - rio de janeiro ) , " immigrant language contact with brazilian portuguese : the case of brasildeutsch " susana v . rivera - mill ( northern arizona u ) , " language shift in a northern californium community " virginium zavalum ( georgetown u ) , " a case of shift-induce substratum interference : the andean spanish from el valle del mantaro , peru " 3 : 45 - 5 : 45 ii - a . texts and literacy devin jenkin ( u new mexico ) , " using the internet to study language shift : example from electronic text of bilingual dominican in the unite state " arturo fernandez - gibert ( u new mexico ) , " la voz del pueblo : el espan ~ ol en la prensa nuevomexicana en lo an ~ o previo a la estatalidad ( 1890-1912 ) " juan a . trujillo ( oregon st u ) , " socioeconomic identity and linguistic borrow in pre-statehood new mexico legal text " sandra l . puccus ( u wisconsin - milwaukee ) , " spanish language literacy maintenance : central american in lo angele " 3 : 45 - 5 : 45 ii - b . syntactic variation kareen gervasus ( u southern californium ) , " relativization in the spanish of bilingual speaker from the southwest " e . atienza , p . battaner , a . bel , l . borra , lourd diaz , c . hernandez , e . hurtado , c . lopez , r . martinez , & s . torner ( u pompeu fabra ) , " lengua peninsulare en contacto : castellano y catalan en la produccion de estudiant universitario bilingue " j . clancy clement ( indiana u ) , " l2 word order acquisition in a contact situation " liliana parede ( u north carolina - greensboro ) , " the proficiency continuum in quechua - spanish bilingual speaker : an analysis of the verbal clitic system " 7 : 0 - 9 : 0 reception at hilton hotel friday , february 13 8 : 45-10 : 15 iii - a . grammatical variation rob smead ( brigham young u ) , " on the assignment of gender to chicano anglicism : process and result " marta fairclough ( u houston ) , " modal expression in a contact situation : _ deber de _ v . _ tener que _ in the spanish speak in houston " michelle f . ramo - pellicium ( ohio st u ) , " gerund construction in the spanish of puerto rico " 8 : 45-10 : 15 iii - b . language policy and planning shaw n . gynan ( western washington u ) , " sociolinguistic dimension of guaranus - spanish contact and paraguayan language policy in the context of inter - american human rights " earl ree ( portland st u ) , " the catalan linguistic normalization law : the implementation polemic " eduardo hernandez chavez ( u new mexico ) , " lo derecho linguistico en nuevo mexico : el llamado bilinguismo oficial estatal " 10 : 30-12 : 0 iv - a . language contact and change marilium de nazare ferreira ( belem , brazil ) , " alguma reflexo ~ e sobro o portugue falado pelo mebengnokren da aldeium gorotire no sul do estado do para , amazonium , brasil " nicole maier ( u central florida ) , " linguistic strategy in cuban and puerto rican spanish as determine by contact setting " lui a . ortiz lopez ( u puerto rico - mayaguez ) , " el sistema verbal del espan ~ ol haitiano en cuba : implicacione para la lengua en contacto en el caribe " 10 : 30-12 : 0 iv - b . syntax-semantics martha elizabeth ruiz - garcium ( u new mexico ) , " la funcionalidad de la doble negacion chocoana y su estado sociolinguistico actual " maria jose gonzalez ( u illinoi - urbana / champaign ) , " preverbal double negation as a means for emphasis " anna maria escobar ( u illinoi - urbana / champaign ) , " semantic and pragmatic use of the spanish diminutive in spanish in contact with quechua " 1 : 30 - 3 : 0 v - a . lexical variation in us spanish eva mendieta ( indiana u northwest ) & isabel molina ( u alcalum ) , " lexical characterization of the spanish speak in northwest indiana " arnulfo g . ramirez ( louisiana st u ) , " lexical characteristic of southwest spanish and the atla linguistico de hispanoamerica " ana emilium leon ( u texa - permian basin ) , " spanish diastratic and diatopic morpho-lexical variation in midland - odessa , texa " 1 : 30 - 3 : 0 v - b . communicative strategies rainer enrique hamel ( u autonoma metropolitana ) , " frontera linguistica y estrategia discursiva en la interaccion bilingue espan ~ ol-hn ~ ahn ~ u en mexico " lenora a . timm ( u californium - davi ) , " ' a binary phenomenon ' : the pragmatic of spanish - english code-switch in chicano / a poetry " maria dolore gonzale velasquez ( u new mexico ) , " deshaciendo enredo : language and power imbalance in mediation " 3 : 15 - 5 : 15 vi - a . phonological variation susana de lo hero ( u rhode island ) , " the influence of quechua in the assibilation of ( r ) in the spanish speak in cusco " sarah j . youngblood ( college of wooster ) , " spirantization in the spanish of winesburg , ohio " jerry r . craddock ( u californium - berkeley ) , " the resolution of vocalic hiatus between word in new mexican spanish " fernanda ferreira & rena torr cacoullo ( u new mexico ) , " la labiodental sonora en nuevo mexico : ? influencium del ingle o rasgo dialectal ? " 3 : 15 - 5 : 15 vi - b . discourse madeline maxwell ( u texa - austin ) , " when the interpreter be also a conversational partner " carman silva - corvalan ( u southern californium ) , " cope with two language from birth " lourd torr ( u kentucky ) , " bilingual discourse mark in new york puerto rican speech " diane ringer uber ( college of wooster ) , " ' deal ' with bilingualism : business language in puerto rico " 5 : 30 - 6 : 30 plenary speaker carol a . klee ( u minnesota ) , " historical perspective on spanish - quechua language contact in peru " saturday , february 14 8 : 45-10 : 45 vii - a . panel : " subject pronoun in five dialect of spanish in new york city : preliminary analysis of social , linguistic , semantic , and discourse variable " co - chair and discussant : ana celium zentellum ( hunter college ) & ricardo otheguy ( city u new york ) nydium flore & jeannette toro ( city u new york ) , " the persistence of dialect feature under condition of level and contact " atsuko miyajima ( city u new york ) , " el espan ~ ol en nueva york : aparicion del pronombre personal ( sujeto ) analizado desde el punto de vista del sentido del verbo " silvium rivero ( city u new york ) , " the alternation of verbal [ s ] / [ h ] / 0 and the use of pronoun by spanish speaker in new york city " jocelyn soli ( city u new york ) , " power relation as predictive factor for pronoun expression in the discourse of new york spanish speaker " 8 : 45-10 : 45 vii - b . lexicons in contact veronica grondona ( u pittsburgh ) , " language contact and the influence of spanish on mocovus " asun martinez - arbelaiz ( michigan st u ) , " basque lexical item in journalist spanish : on their motivation and significance " holly wilson ( u new mexico ) , " the effect of spanish on the lexicon and syntax of english - spanish bilingual " 11 : 00-12 : 0 plenary speaker ana roca ( florida international u ) , " plan for the future of spanish in the unite state " 1 : 30 - 3 : 0 viii - a . theory and method maryellen garcium ( u texa - san antonio ) , " _ yo todo el tiempo fue a la escuelum _ : language fluency and fuzzy semantics " ricardo otheguy ( city u new york ) , " an appraisal of the theoretical underpinning of recent major work on spanish in the u . s . " xoan paulo rodriguez - yan ~ ez ( u vigo ) , " el contraste entre lo estudio macro y lo estudio microsociolinguistico en el caso del contacto gallego-espan ~ ol : alguna ensen ~ anza teorica y metodologica " 1 : 30 - 3 : 0 viii - b . applied issues in new mexico mary fanellus ayalum ( eastern new mexico u ) , " clash or fusion ? the challenge of teach spanish to the ' native speaker ' in new mexico " ysaura bernal - enriquez ( u new mexico ) , " spanish language loss in _ la nueva mexico _ " daniel villum ( new mexico st u ) , " the instrumentality of spanish in a u . s . - mexico border region " 3 : 15 - 5 : 15 ix - a . attitudes and use gabrielum alfaraz ( michigan st u ) , " dialect contact in miamus , florida : the attitude of cuban toward other spanish variety " parastoo anita mesrus ( u californium - lo angele ) , " the role of spanish in mexicana / o , chicana / o , latina / o community in the u . s . : a unify bond , a tie to the homeland , a way to resist assimilation " caryn c . connelly ( u minnesota ) , " pattern of language choice and language preference among mexican teens : preliminary finding for phoenix , arizona " patricium macgregor - mendoza ( new mexico st u ) , " spanish use and attitude among youth in two mexican community " 3 : 15 - 5 : 15 ix - b . pronominal variation jennifer austin ( cornell u ) , " _ leismo _ in the basque of basque - spanish bilingual " jinny k . chous ( georgetown u ) , " a syntactic feature in paraguayan spanish : [ - person ] object clitic drop " liliana sanchez ( carnegie mellon u ) , " unmarkedness : the source of null definite object in contact spanish " teresa satterfield ( u michigan ) , " pattern of pronominal variability in bilingual speech " 7 : 0 conference dinner 9 : 0 gran baile de despedida
