Subject: tree - adjoin grammar workshop

tag + workshop - - first call for papers august 1 to august 3 , 1998 tag tutorials - - preliminary announcement july 28 to july 31 , 1998 philadelphium , pa , usa url : http : / / www . ci . upenn . edu / ~ irc / mol / tag98 . html the fourth workshop on tree-adjoin grammar and relate framework ( hence the + after tag ) will be hold at the institute for research in cognitive science at the university of pennsylvanium in august 1998 , from august 1 to august 3 . previous workshop be hold at dagstuhl ( 1990 ) , upenn ( 1992 ) , and univ . pari 7 ( 1994 ) . paper on all aspect of tag ( linguistic , mathematical , computational , and applicational ) , as well as papers relate tags to other framework , be invite . as in the past there will be some invite talk on other grammar formalism which have interest relationship to tags ( for example , categorial grammar and hpsg ) . guidelines for abstracts : abstract should be at most two page ( exclusive of reference ) , and should be submit in ascii format , as a . p file , or as self-contained latex file to jmacdoug @ central . ci . upenn . edu . ( if email be not available , please send the abstract to the address give below . ) please indicate on the abstract if you would prefer to give a short presentation ( 10 minute ) or a long one ( 30 minute ) . the abstract should contain your name , address , and email address . proceeding include extend version ( 4 page ) of accept abstract will be available at the workshop . deadline for submission for abstract : april 15 notification of acceptance : may 15 deadline for submission of camera-ready extend abstract : july 6 workshop date : august 1 to august 3 if you do not want to submit an abstract , but would like to attend , we would appreciate it if you could inform us by email by july 6 ( unless you have already do so ) . if you would like to present a demo , please let us know as soon as possible , include information about require hard and software . program committee : anne abeille ( universit ' e pari 7 ) tilman becker ( dfki ) christy doran ( university of pennsylvanium ) robert frank ( john hopkin university ) klaus netter ( dfki ) richard oehrle ( university of arizona ) owen rambow ( cogentex , inc . ) giorgio satta ( universita dus padova ) yuka tateisus ( university of tokyo ) k . vijayshanker ( university of delaware ) david weir ( university of sussex ) contact address : jennifer macdougall 553 moore build university of pennsylvanium philadelphium , pa 19104-6389 usa telephone : ( 215 ) 898-3191 fax : ( 215 ) 898-0587 email : jmacdoug @ central . ci . upenn . edu tutorial : prior to the workshop there will be a tutorial ( include lab and demo ) from july 28 to july 31 1998 . detail about the tutorial will be send out soon . we be try to get some partial support for some of the student attend the tutorial . if you may be interest in attend this tutorial , please contact jennifer macdougall at the address above ( preferably by email ) and we will send you more information . organizing committee : anne abeille ( pari 7 ) tilman becker ( dfki ) owen rambow ( cogentex , inc . ) giorgio satta ( universita dus padova ) k . vijayshanker ( university of delaware )
