Subject: convergence / divergence of dialect conf - final

european science foundation the convergence and divergence of dialect in a chang europe university of read , 17-19 september , 1998 final announcement and registration details the final conference of the european science foundation network on the convergence and divergence of dialect in a chang europe will take place at the university of read , england , on 17-19 september , 1998 . it will include invite lecture by gaetano berruto ( turin ) , william labov ( pennsylvanium ) and peter trudgill ( lausanne ) , as well as lecture by member of the network . paper for this event be welcome from everyone work in the area of dialect convergence and divergence in europe , both from a diachronic and a synchronic perspective , use qualitative or quantitative methodology . contribution on the smaller language of europe be particularly welcome , as be papers on syntax , prosody and discourse . note that we take 'd ialect ' to refer to any non-standard language variety , and that we exclude from consideration relation between what be normally hold to be different language . close date for receipt of abstract : 16th march 1998 ( revise deadline ) decision on acceptance of abstract : by 8th may themes : 1 . the role of standardisation in dialect convergence / divergence 2 . political boundary and divergence / convergence 3 . the effect of migration on convergence / divergence 4 . historical perspective on convergence / divergence ( earlier period , long-term change , etc . ) 5 . method for the study of convergence / divergence 6 . dialect convergence / divergence and the light they shed on linguistic and sociolinguistic theory languages of conference : english and french format of papers : 45 minute ( 30 minute plus 15 minute discussion ) , or posters abstracts : either four paper copy of a single-sheet abstract to be send to paul kerswill at the address below , or an e-mail version to be send to him on p . e . kerswill @ read . ac . uk . state which theme your abstract come under , and whether it be for a paper or a poster . at the top , give your name , institution ( university , etc . ) , address , e-mail address , fax and phone number . abstracts must be received by 16th march 1998 . registration : see the follow website and click on ' registration form ' : http : / / www . linguistics . read . ac . uk / research / seminar / dialect / - or e-mail paul kerswill . the site will also contain update , as will the esf 's : http : / / www . esf . org / dialum . htm # finalconference arrival details : read be in the south of england , between london and oxford . london 's heathrow airport be under an hour away by airport bus . gatwick airport be easily reach by train ( one hour 15 minute ) . dr paul kerswill ( esf ) department of linguistic science the university of read whiteknight , po box 218 read rg6 6aa , uk tel . + 44 118 987 5123 fax + 44 118 975 3365 e-mail p . e . kerswill @ read . ac . uk peter auer ( hamburg ) , co-chair of network , e-mail auer @ rrz . uni-hamburg . de fran hinsken ( nijmegen ) , co-chair of network , e-mail f . hinsken @ let . kun . nl paul kerswill , local organiser 24 / 1 / 98
