Subject: " de dag . proceeding of the workshop on definite "

" de dag . proceeding of the workshop on definite " edit by paul dekker , jaap van der doe , helen de hoop * * * this collection of original papers on definite present current research from the netherland . definiteness , one of the central topic in linguistic research , remains an intrigue subject with many issue unresolve . many of the papers in this collection do not only contribute to the characterization of definite in one particular area of language or logic : they also shed light on issue of the interface between semantics , pragmatic , syntax and process . a quick reminder of the semantic characteristic of ( in ) definite be add to the introduction by jaap van der doe . paul dekker 's paper study the semantics and pragmatic of the referential interpretation of definite and the specific interpretation of indefinite , use notion of information from dynamic semantic theory . difference in syntactic behaviour ( in particular with respect to scramble ) between definite and indefinite be study in relation to their semantic property by helen de hoop . edith kaan show that the process mechanism be not only drive by structure but also sensitive to the ( in ) definiteness of the np involve . a new version of van der sandt 's presuppositions-a - anaphor theory be present by emiel krahmer and kee van deemter , deal particularly well with partial match phenomenon between anaphoric and antecedent nps . manuelum pinto focus on the syntactic license and interpretation of definite invert subject in italian . an extension of the study of ( in ) definite to the domain of temporal measure noun be provide by henk verkuyl . in the last paper of the volume , yoad winter present an analysis of unary distributivity to account for the seemingly polyadic effect in sentence with multiple occurrence of plural definite . * * * copy 's of " de dag . proceeding of the workshop on definite " cost dfl . 20 , - for member of lot and dfl . 25 , - for other , and be available from the utrecht institute of linguistic ots . if you would like to order a copy , please send an e-mail ( with your name and ( e-mail ) address ) to uil-ot @ let . ruu . nl .
