Subject: call : workshop on american indigenous language ( wail )

workshop on american indigenous language santa barbara , ca may 9-10 , 1998 the linguistics department at the university or californium , santa barbara issue a call for papers to be present at its first annual workshop on american indigenous language ( wail ) . the workshop will be a forum for the discussion of theoretical and descriptive linguistic study of indigenous language of the america . the workshop will take place on saturday and sunday may 9-10 , 1998 on the campus of the university of californium , santa barbara . our invite speaker will be nicolum bessel , wallace chafe , and marianne mithun . dr . bessell have work extensively on the phonetics / phonology interface in coeur d ' alene salish . dr . chafe 's current research involve documentation of the seneca and caddo language . he be also write a popular book on the importance of native american language . dr . mithun have just complete a book on the language of north america for the green series put out by cambridge university press . anonymous abstract be invite for talk on any topic in linguistics . talk will be 20 minute , follow by 10 minute for discussion . individual may submit abstract for one single and one co-author paper . abstract should be one page with a 500 word limit . a separate page for datum and reference may be include , if necessary . abstract may be submit in hardcopy or by email . the deadline for receipt of abstract be february 22 , 1998 . for hardcopy submittal , please send four copy of your anonymous one-page abstract . in the envelope , include a 3x5 card with the follow information : a . name b . affiliation c . mail address d . phone number e . e-mail address f . title of your paper hardcopy abstract should be mail to : workshop on american indigenous language department of linguistic university of californium , santa barbara santa barbara , ca 93106 email submission be encourage . to submit an abstract by email , the information that would be include on the 3x5 card should be in the body of the email message , with the anonymous abstract send as an attachment . email abstract should be send to : wail @ humanita . ucsb . edu deadline for receipt of abstracts : february 22 , 1998 notification of acceptance will be by email in mid - march . general information santa barbara be situate on the pacific ocean near the santa ynez mountain . the ucsb campus be locate near the santa barbara airport , and be approximately 90 mile north of lax airport in lo angele . shuttle bus run from lax to santa barbara several time each day . information about hotel accomodation will be provide on request . crash space for participant may be available with graduate student in the ucsb linguistics department for those who arrange early . wail be co-sponsor by the ucsb linguistics department and the department 's native american indian language ( nail ) study group , which have be meet regularly in santa barbara since 1990 , provide a forum for the discussion of issue relate to native american language and culture . for further information contact the conference coordinator at wail @ humanita . ucsb . edu or ( 805 ) 893-3776 .
