Subject: save money on your phone bill

i hope you do n't object to a complete stranger mail you this , but i believe this to be an opportunity too good to be miss by anyone . i ' m look forward to save money on my phone bill and so can you : - to save money on your phone bill please read this message carefully tcw telecom direct ltd least cost rout give you the opportunity to save money on all of your phone bill all of the time . how much will you save ? local call 15 % regional call 30 % national call 30 % international call 30 % landline to mobile 10 % ( discount show be against bt standard rate . rate track bt on a daily basis , for price information see bt ) now here comes the best bit - you can save even more every month by referring friends . simply tell your friend about the tcw lcr service . give them your customer number ( locate on the top leave of your contract when you have become a customer ) ( call 669 442350 and quote account number de / 184374 to become a customer yourself ) ask your friend to call tcw telecom direct ltd on 669 442350 . let tcw telecom direct ltd do the rest . how will tcw thank you ? you ' ll receive credit for every month that your recommend friend continue to use the tcw service . every month there will be a loyalty referral discount on your bill . the more friend you refer , the greater your monthly credit will become - and yes - this credit be every month . so become a tcw customer now and then call your friend . in time , your phone bill from tcw telecom direct could read zero ! how do you become a tcw customer ? call tcw telecom direct ltd on 669 442350 now and give them the account number de / 184374 - you , me and your friend will soon be save money on your phone bill - even more so if you all recommend the service to other . good luck and here 's to smaller phone bill for everyone ! ! more details follow for those wishing to know more about how this service works if you be already receive discount from bt or your cable operator , you may not see the benefit of use the tcw service as the discount above may not seem attractive . however , remember that by recommend friend your resultant discount over bt standard rate could become 100 % every month due to the referral credit appear on your tcw bill . in other word , by recommend friend you can reduce your tcw bill to zero over time . i have just ask tcw / telecom direct customer service what happen to call to number such as 0845 that get use for internet access , and apparently these be discount the same as local call , i . e . 15 % ( or more when you recommend friend ) . please call them yourself to confirm on 669 442350 . what be least cost route ? least cost route be a system design to save you money on all your local , regional , national and international call as well as call to mobile phone . why be least cost route allow to exist ? least cost route be relatively new in the uk and have come about since the government pass a bill to deregulate the national telephone system . this end the bt monopoly , allow tcw telecom direct to offer you a highly competitive service with substantial discount on your call . how do it work ? least cost route work by simply re-rout your call through tcw 's bill system . it do this vium a free " smart box " that attach to your phone and bt or cable socket . in other word , you keep your exist telephone number , dial as normal , and receive exactly the same high quality service . you will then receive a bill from your exist telephone company for line rental and maybe some specialise call and another bill ( lower than before ) from tcw for your local , regional , national and international call as well as call to mobile phone . your combine bill will , of course be lower . effectively nothing change , but the total price you pay . the " smart box " be plug into your exist bt or cable wall socket which be use for the majority of your call . your phone be then plug into the " smart box " . you then use your phone as per normal and save money . if there be heavy usage from another extension , you may consider request a second smart box . there be no minimum contract period . what will your bill from tcw show ? fully itemise call detail with number of call , type of call ( local , regional , national , international , mobile ) , duration of call , cost of each call , how much the call would have cost without least cost route .
