Subject: this be scary ! ! !

thirst ! as see on television " cryptosporidium " be in a neighborhood near you ! this can actually happen that be why they make a television movie about it . they want to educate the public on parasite . parasite be the # 1 silent killer ! we have to do something to protect ourselve from this terrible menace . if you do n't get to see the movie let me just briefly explain what happen and why it be important to do something about it . a very small parasite by the name of " cryptosporidium " , get into the city reservoir . it contaminate their drink water and those people who drink the water become ill and many of them die . you see parasite need a " host " to live and multiply . we as human can become that host . there be many different type of parasite and there be many way that we can contract them . here be just a few sign of parasite ; chronic fatigue , bodily ache and pain , skin problem , headache , constipation , arthritis , gas and bloat , loss of appetite , sexual dysfunction , uncontrollable weight , itchy ear , nose and anus , premature age , forgetfulness , menopause , and pms to mention a few . it be scary to know just how easily it be to get contaminate by a parasite . we can contract them by eat uncook meat and fish , from vegetable , casual contact , sexual contact , swim in lake and stream , we can contract them from our pet and from the air we breathe . these be just a few of the way . can you even begin to understand the potential danger we be live with each and every day ? you have two choice you can ignore them and let them eat you alive . by do this you know your ultimate fate . you be head toward the path of sickness , disease and possibly death . you can however , choose to do something about it now and change all that ! i know the road my family and i be take . i only hope that you do the same ! if you choose to live a healthier , more productive life , and wish to obtain additional information on what you can do to protect yourself and your love one call 1-813 - 677-2217 . this message be bring to you from someone who care may god bless you !
