Subject: free credit - 60852

if you have bad credit this message could change your life ! if you do not have bad credit , no need to send us a message to remove you from our mail list , for this offer will only be send once , so if you be not interest , just delete . we be provide a compile list of 14 bank , include name , address and phone # 's , who offer unsecure visa and mastercard - mean no security deposit ! for those with bid credit . we also have 6 phone # 's and 2 address of business who offer signature , business , and personal loan by mail , with absolutely no collateral ! no co-signers ! these loan range from as little as $ 500 to $ 25 , 0 for signature and personal loan and $ 5 , 0 to $ 1 , 0 , 0 for business loan . they be structure at competitive rate with flexible repayment schedule design for people with bid credit . in addition , we also have 3 phone # 's for bid credit auto finance , a list of 20 bank who offer low interest , low deposit , secure card and 7 merchant phone # 's for those with no credit , bid credit , or even bankruptcy . and if that be n't enough , a list of 7 merchant who offer computer to people with bankruptcy or no credit with no money down . last but not least , we ' ll include testimonial from those who have have success story match with the appropriate lend institution . this free bonus information be all contain within our " clean up your credit manual " . our manual be a complete step by step instruction on how to correct your credit , just like the professional do , only we save you hundred of dollar to do it . our manual will help you restore your credit so that you may once again finance a home , buy a car , or go on that vacation you ' ve alway dream about . our manual can be purchase for $ 15 . 0 ( $ 1 . 0 of which will be donate to cancer / aid foundation ) . the manual will be send through e-mail for this amount . ( similiar list and credit card search currently run for $ 49 to $ 300 for only a third of the information we have which do n't even mention how to clean up your credit - this information will cost you at least $ 1000 if do by a professional ) if the manual must be send by regular mail , fax , or check by fax , check by telephone , the cost be $ 20 . 0 because of the additional expense . we be deliver this information cheaply because we be once in your shoe and know how you feel - unfortunately , we must provide for our family therefore , we must exchange this information for money . someday we hope to offer it for nothing . be sure to indicate how you would like to receive your information - email address , fax number , home address , etc . . . . . if you be in a rush for the information and have a check account please notify us by phone with your name , address and phone # to 1-412 - 886-1151 and we can take your information over the phone or by fax , thereby release our credit manual to you instantly vium email . please forward these request on to 1 - 412-886 - 1151 this department process these request only ! remember this method will be an extra $ 5 . 0 because of the additional cost the bank charge us to process this method . we at ekel link have distributive rights with all companies listed in our manual , meaning we have the right to give out their phone # ' s and addresses . therefore , we have permission to publish them as " bonus information " in our " clean up your credit manual " . unless you acquire the same rights we suggest you think twice about selling this information for a profit or giving it away . those currently selling the information without such permission will be notified shortly of their fatal mistake ! - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - summary information please send cash , check or money order to information below . payable to : ekel link send to : ekel link rr # 2 suite 614 - a ruffsdale , pa 15679 . pay review : $ 15 . 0 advance purchase ( mean you send us the money first i . e . cash , check or money order ) then we will e-mail the manual to you . do n't forget to give us your email address ! $ 20 . 0 advance purchase ( mean we accept your check account information by fax or by phone ) then we email you our manual . you must contact us at 1-412 - 886-1151 to do this ! $ 20 . 0 advance purchase ( mean you send the money first ) then we fax or send you the manual . do n't forget to give us your mail address or fax phone # ! $ 25 . 0 advance purchase ( mean we accept your check account information by fax or phone , call 1 - 412-886 - 1151 ) then we fax or send your our manual through postal mail . void where not legal by law . we be not professional financial consultant . we be not a credit institution or loan service . therefore , we can not offer a loan or a line of credit to you . what you be pay us for be a manual which describe our method of success on clean up our credit file . all attempt to clean up credit may vary depend on the effort and circumstance of each individual . all bank and loan by mail service be responsible and completely liable for their own personal guarantee , we be not . if you decide to do business with any of the list bank or loan institution by mail , you agree to forward all question pertain to their service to them and not to us . we can and will only answer question pertain to the manual which descibe our own personal credit clean success . all other info consider " bonus information " we be not liable for . we be disclose these statement of claim because of the overwhelm response to answer question which we have no knowledge or authority to answer . the choice to order be yours - all we know be the information help us . if you have bid credit and you be look for an easy route to scam someone else out of money , such as a bank or loan who do you a favor - please do not order from us - we be commit to help people - not enourage people to make bid situation worse . any knowledge of such suspicion or information relate to scam will be report immediately . so if you have have a bid experience on the internet - let us know ! we are pro-actively trying to eliminate such commerce on the internet . in fact , tell us your story , we have just add a new section to our manual call , " never be scam again " , with the people 's permission , we be include personal story of bid experience or " scam " they ' ve have on the internet . so even if you do n't purchase , at least give us your story to help stop such business on the internet and protect the consumer . we will answer as many question as we can , so do n't hesitate to keep in touch . any suggestion or update information be appreciate and will be reward . ( reward warrant and merit at our discretion ) as we have state before , this be a one time offer and will only be email to you once ! so order now ! $ 15 could change your life drastically as it has ours . thank for visit - hope to talk to you soon . good luck and god bless you and your family . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ekel link rr # 2 suite 614 - a ruffsdale , pa 15679 unite state 1-412 - 886-1151 p . s . sorry our return email address probably is out of commission because so many rich business men complained about our message and don ' t like to see the small business man help the needy ! therefore , you must either write us or call the number above . thanks again and take care !
