Subject: visit us in the tropic

` , , ` , , ` , , ` florida / bahamas / cancun family holiday ! ! ! ! ` , , ` , , ` , , ` you have be select to enter for a limited time only ! family getaway for 2 adults 3 children or 4 adults ! offer now available world wide for a limit time only ! if selected you could enjoy : 1 . 4 day 3 night in magical orlando florida , home of disney world where you will enjoy the hospitality of either the comfort suite or holiday inn . have a blast with a free family pass to watermania water park in orlando . you will also receive the orlando " magic card " entitle you to hundreds of dollars worth of discounts in the orlando area ! ! ! ! ! ! 2 . then enjoy 3 day 3 nigh in sunny cocoa beach florida , live it up at the hilton overlook the atlantic ocean ! ! ! put the kid to bed early . . . . . . and enjoy 2 complimentary adult casino cruise tickets ! ! ! ! ! 3 . a complimentary alamo rental car with unlimit mileage for your stay in florida ( must carry a mjor credit card for car rental deposit ) register now to take advantage of this once in a lifetime holiday and if you qualify enjoy . . . . . . . . this special online offer ! ! ! reply within 48 hour of receipt and you will also recieve : 2 bonus minus vacation > 4 days / 3 nights in beautiful cancun , mexico at the piramide cancun beach resort ! ! > 4 days / 3 nights in nassau , grand bahama at the marriott crystal palace resort & casino all of this for only $ 678 for 2 adult and 3 child , or 4 adult ! ! ! ! ! ! ( if you do qualify you will need to secure promotional fee on a major credit card to guarantee your travel date ) to register go to : http : / / travelk . tzo . com this be not a contest , lottery or sweepstakes . you be qualify base on demographic such as age , area you live in , etc . qualify entrant will be contact by one of our experience travel representative with the full detail . only one phone call per household . ( all field must be fill completely in order to be a valid entry . this info will remain completely confidential ! ) this cover all fee except for any incidentals such as phone , food , gratuity , and hotel tax which be pay directly to the hotel .
