Subject: skytop sale - - save over $ 100 on a digital camera !

if you ' ve be search for a high-resolution , feature-laden digital camera that produce image with incredible level of detail and color depth , and which have a price tag that win break the bank , well , you ' ve probably wonder if such an unlikely animal exist . . . it do . and skytop sale have it . http : / / 207 . 13 . 239 . 101 / cgi-bin / rtr ? 91byvpm1scp9pdbo3lc0hxy5klcz3c announcing the svminus - 209 from sound vision - - a digital camera that utilize the latest technology to deliver ultrahigh-quality image ( 2000x1600 pixel ! ) at an affordable price . never hear of sound vision ? you probably know their product . sound vision be a camera manufacturer . their customer , in most case , be large company who brand the camera sound vision make and resell them as their own . one such company , for example , be sell a sound vision camera under its own very well-known label ; that camera retail for $ 479 . ( or more . the middleman have to make their dough , of course . ) that same camera under the original manufacturer ' s label be call the sound vision svminus - 209 . through skytop sale , it 's only $ 349 . by sacrifice the big label and eliminate the middleman , you save eighty buck on the identical unit . and to sweeten the deal even further , we ' ll include $ 125 worth of memory enhancement at no additional cost . to have a look at the svminus - 209 , please visit our web site by follow the link below . ( and bear in mind that you ' ve probably already see this camera , if you ' ve be do any comparison shop . it just have a different name , and cost more . ) http : / / 207 . 13 . 239 . 101 / cgi-bin / rtr ? 91byvpm1scp9pdbo3lc0hxy5klcz3c the most camera your money can buy . . . sound vision use new cmos sensor technology at the heart of its svminus - 209 to deliver greatly increase resolution at a lower cost . in fact , sound vision 's camera be the first on the market to use cmos sensor instead of the traditional ccd sensor use in other digital camera . the benefit of cmos technology : - higher resolution - - the svminus - 209 capture huge 3 . 2 megapixel image ( that 's 2000x1600 pixel ! ) - lower cost than ccds - - get more camera for the dollar - lower power draw - - dramatically increase battery life knock-out images and accompanying sound can be store either in camera internal memory or on removable flash memory card , both linear and sandisk . level - selectable jpeg compression allow you to find the right balance of image quality and memory economy . ( the module which allow the svminus - 209 to use sandisk card , call the minus option , normally be a separate purchase . like we say : we ' re throw it in for free . that , and a free 2 mb sandisk card - - a combine value of $ 125 ! ) take great photo with the svminus - 209 be effortless . in addition to the red , green , and blue color receptor common to other digital camera , the svminus - 209 feature a fourth receptor for teal , which dramatically increase possible color depth ( and , in fact , more closely mimic the capability of the human retina ) . a sophisticate auto-exposure algorithm prevent the over-saturation of highlight while still preserve shadow detail . an automatic electronic flash guarantee that your shot will be light to perfection , every time . the experts know . . . byte magazine review the svminus - 209 in its november ' 97 issue , and give the camera the highest rate , five stars . byte say , " . . . it deliver ultra-high quality digital image at a relatively bargain price . " ( the bargain price they ' re talk about be $ 479 . we ' re offer $ 100 + savings over the bargain price . ) to learn more about this outstand camera , and for a comprehensive discussion of its feature , ( and to order ! ) follow the link below : http : / / 207 . 13 . 239 . 101 / cgi-bin / rtr ? 91byvpm1scp9pdbo3lc0hxy5klcz3c price for digital camera span the spectrum . compare its feature and benefit with other camera , and you ' ll find that the svminus - 209 be way more camera for way less cost . compare its feature and benefit with the same camera under a popular brand name , and you ' ll find that the svminus - 209 be the identical camera for waaay less cost . thank for your time ! your friend at skytop sale p . s . digital image have so many fantastic application : spice up a business proposal or presentation , design a dazzle web site , email photo to friend and family all over the world , create your own photo art use one of the popular graphic program on the market . the possibility be endless . . . and with the ultrahigh-quality image of the svminus - 209 in hand , you ' re limit only by your imagination . p . p . s . our agreement with soundvision allow us to sell the svminus - 209 for $ 349 for a limit time only . please act quickly . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this mail be intend to be of interest to a large audience and to communicate a valuable offer . if you have no interest in this offer , be advise that other valuable promotion will be feature in future mailing which may be of interest to you . however , if you have no desire to receive offer of value from us in the future , please click the link below to remove yourself from our mail list . http : / / 207 . 13 . 239 . 101 / cgi-bin / rem ? vbanaqeanvsuprqpnpphx copyright 1998 , skytop sale . the information contain in this email message may not be publish , broadcast , rewrite , or otherwise distribute without the express write consent of skytop sale .
