Subject: sum : software

dear colleagues , i am really grateful for your assistance and your information , which is presented bellow : a ) for dos / windows 1 . speech viewer ( with no more information either about the manufacturer , the price and any comments about its function ) . 2 . cecil ( computerised extraction of components of intonation and language ) price : around $ 300 8 bit sampling @ 8 , 13 , or 19 . 5 khz , to dos pc memory , via parallel port . software extraction and display ( ega or vga ) of various features , e . g . , waveform raw f0 smoothed f0 etc . has built-in ipa font for transcription / labelling of analysed signals . address : " jaars ( international computer services , box 248 jaars road , waxhaw , nc 28173 , ( usa ? ) ( 704 ) 843-6151 , fax : ( 704 ) 843-6200 ) " ( kimberly soto ) . ( it seems that cecil is hardware of the following package ) 3 . sil speech analysis system a package that " does a very good job of tracking and displaying f0 . it will also display the waveform and / or amplitude contour simultaneously and can do some rudimentary spectral analysis as well . the total cost for the hardware interface and software is about $ 300 . the hardware component consists of a small box that connects to the parallel port of the computer and has input jacks for a microphone or tape recorder . the version runs under ms-dos , although i ' m told a windows version is either available now or will be soon . the address to order from is : international computer services attn : customer services box 248 waxhaw , nc 28173-0248 usa phone : 704-843 - 6257 they also list an e-mail address : icsust @ 1 . jaars . sil . org . i have not found this address to work in the past " . ( rod casali ) 4 . csre ( canadian speech research environment ) . the program is developed by don jamieson and others in western ontario . it needs a 386 pc or more . the program cost $ 400 ( in 1993 ) and the manufacturers recommended an ariel board as hardware ( which cost around 2 - 3 thousand dollars in 1993 ) . " address : avaaz innovation inc . po box 8040 wonderland rd . north london ontario n6g 2b0 canada tel ( 519 ) 472-7944 fax : ( 519 ) 472-7819 " ( franke ingolf ) 5 . dsp ( digital signal processing ) the manufacturer is : ariel corporation phone : ( 908 ) 249-2900 433 river road fax : ( 908 ) 249-2123 highland park , nj 08904 dsp bbs : ( 908 ) 249-2124 ( 300-9600 bps ) ( i believe in usa ) in addition , they offer the speechstation , a complete speech-synthesis package . 6 . speechstation ( sencimetrics ) ( with no more information either about the manufacturer - which could be the ariel corporation - , the price and any comments about its function ) . 7 . cspeech " for a dos environment , cspeech does a great job of displaying a waveform , a fundamental frequency contour , and an amplitude contour , ( as well as other analyses , including a spectrogram ) on one screen . for further information about cspeech , contact : paul milenkovic dept . of electrical & computer engineering university of wisconsin - madison madison , wi 53706 u . s . a . milenkovic @ engr . wisc . edu " ( charles read ) 8 . kay elemetrics ' computer speech lab ( csl ) " very few of the commercial pitch tracers are good with noisy recordings . kay claim to have a new super-robust system which works with their cls work station . " ( linda shockey ) " this set-up must cost around $ 3500 - $ 5000 without the dos machine itself . " ( alex francis ) " the best pc system for general purpose speech analysis , including spectrograms linear prediction analysis and all kinds of other things , is the csl system from kay . it is a lot more expensive , but is really quite sophisticated and very impressive . strangely , though , the f0 tracks are not very dependable - there is sometimes doubling and halving , and quite often you need to fiddle with the parameters to get anything at all usable . " ( david deterding ) " address : kay elemetics corp . 12 maple avenue po box 2025 pine brook , nj 07058-2025 usa tel : ( 201 ) 227-2000 fax : ( 201 ) 227-7760 " ( franke ingolf ) 9 . loughborough sound images speech work station this program runs on a pc at ( or 286 / 386 based compatible ) , with 640k ram , ega / vga graphics , microsoft mouse ( or compatible ) , hard disk ( 40 mb recommended ) , ram disk ( required for stereo recording or fast sample rates ) , dos version 3 . 0 or greater . the lsi speech workstation can display the signal in a variety of ways , including black and white or full-colour spectrograms , waveforms , spectral slices ( cross-section through a spectrogram which is displayed horizontally across the screen ) . . . all of them are reasonably fast , especially on a 386 pc . a wide range of bandwidths is available for the spectrogram and the spectral slice , and the waveform can be scaled . . several of these can be displayed at the same time by splitting the screen . the screen can also be split to accommodate parts of two separate recordings . the analog card supplied with the speech workstation has two input channels each of which can be connected to either a microphone or line output . two markers are available , which allow you to pecutting and pasting , copying etc . it is possible to play only marked sections of the signal on the screen . the maximum length of analysed speech was 3 - 5 minutes . the manufacturers are : loughborough sound images limited the technology centre epinal way loughborough england le11 0qe telephone : ( 0509 ) 231 843 telex : 34 1409 lufbra g fax : ( 0509 ) 262 433 10 . sfs " i ' ll include the whole readme file : speech filing system computer tools for speech research department of phonetics and linguistics university college london introduction sfs provides a computing environment for conducting research into the nature of speech . it comprises software tools , file and data formats , subroutine libraries , graphics , standards and special programming languages . it performs standard operations such as acquisition , replay , waveform editing and labelling , spectrographic and formant analysis and fundamental frequency estimation . it runs under unix and dos environments and is currently running on sun , hewlett - packard , masscomp and 486pc . sfs is copyrighted university college london , but is currently supplied free of charge to research establishments for non-profit use . sfs is supplied as is with no warranty or support . features operating environments : unix , protected - mode dos ( with gnu compiler ) supported data acquisition / replay : masscomp : ad12f , da08 sun : sparc - 2 8 - bit , sparc-10 16 - bit ibm-pc : data translation 2811 , pclx , ucl parallel printer dac ( sfs supports networked replay from unix to pc ) supported graphics devices : masscomp : 6 - plane colour graphics sun : sparc - 2 monochrome console , suntools sun , hp : x - windows pc : vga and svga ( sfs supports networked graphics from unix to pc ) epson 24 - bit dot matrix kyocera laser printer postscript laser printer wordperfect graphics file output utilities : create sfs file , list sfs file , display / print sfs file , copy / link / remove items in sfs file , dump contents of sfs file . analysis programs : acquisition and replay , waveform processing , laryngographic processing , fundamental frequency estimation ( from sp or from lx ) , formant frequency estimation , formant synthesis , spectrographic analysis , lpc analysis / synthesis , filterbank analysis / synthesis , psola prosody manipulation . file formats : import from text , binary and ils files ; save multiple data items in sfs files and compare ; standard formats for speech , lx , tx , fx , annotations , synthesizer data , spectra , spectrograms , lpc coefficients , parameter tracks , etc ; export to binary , text , ils , htk , etc ; processing history maintained in file . subroutine libraries : supports sfs file i / o and dynamic memory allocation for data sets ; matrix operations ; device-independent graphics . special purpose languages : sml speech measurement language - interpreted language for measuring data in sfs files ; spc speech pascal - compiled language for waveform manipulation and analysis ; c-span - compiled language for synthetic speech stimuli generation . source sfs is available by anonymous ftp from : pitch . phon . ucl . ac . uk in the directory / pub / sfs ( from august 1993 ) . the readme file gives current version information . remember that we are unable to service requests for support on this software . bug fixes only may be sent to sfs @ phonetics . ucl . ac . uk ; requests for help may be ignored . acknowledgements sfs has been developed from software written during the spar alvey project involving gec , imperial college london , university college london and leeds university . the software that is distributed contains only the ucl contribution to that project . additional , compatible software may be available from these partners or from other current users of sfs , for example at york university . please contact mark huckvale for further information about ownership and other available software . mark huckvale university college london gower street london wc1e 6bt sfs @ phonetics . ucl . ac . uk " ( hannes pirker ) 11 . spectro 3000 " 2 channel signal analyser ( separate devise ) this analyser has the best pitch technique ( sift and cepstrum ) i have ever seen - but is very expensive ( about 50 . 000 dm ) . address : medav digitale signalverarbeitungs gmbh graefenberger strasse 34 d-91080 uttenreuth germany " ( franke ingolf ) b ) for mac 1 . voice navigator . the only thing that i learned about this software ( ? ) is the name - only - of the manufacturer , i . e . articulate systems . 2 . macspeech lab the manufacturer is : gw instruments , 35 medford st . , somerville , ma 02143 ( canada ? ) ( 617 ) 625-4096 ( 617 ) 625-1322 ( fax ) 3 . macrecorder ( no information about it ) 4 . dsp ( the same as for dos / windows ) 5 . signalyse ( version 3 . 0 ) " signalyze ( tm ) 3 . 0 is an integrated speech signal analysis application for the macintosh . it does signal editing and direct signal i / o to / from a number of devices . version 3 . 0 has a user-friendly multi-level labeling feature : each label is coded for a linguistic level ( e . g . , segment , syllable , etc . ) . level names are determined by the user and are color-coded . also new in version 3 . 0 : speech slow-down and speed-up ( up to five times ) , color / grayscale spectrograms right with signal , av - macintosh support , easy vertical zoom , and more . signalyze has a large number of spectral analysis tools : spectrograms ( b / w , 16 and 256 colors / grays ) , cepstrograms , cone kernels , lpc - grams , fft spectra and cepstra , and lpc spectra . also included are statistics , db measurement , interpolated signal resampling , transformations , envelopes , zero passages , and filtering . the manual is 224 pages , the on-board contextual help is in english , french and german , and the whole interface is switchable to english , french and german . the program is about 980 k at the present . it runs on any mac from the macplus on up ( 4 mb and hard disk required ) . prices effective january 31 , 1994 : individual license : $ 350 . departmental license : $ 750 . organizational license : $ 1250 extra manuals : $ 25 per manual . shipping costs : 1 . u . s . , canada and europe : $ 10 priority / air mail 2 . rest of the world : $ 20 priority / air mail 3 . 3 - day shipping anywhere in the world : $ 50 " also , " here are some details on the new labeling facility in signalyze ( version 3 . 0 , macintosh - specific software ) . this may be of use to people working in prosody . levels the signalyze labeling operation works by levels . for each label , you specify a level , such as " segment " , " syllable " , " phrase " etc . each level has its own label color and its own , user-definable name . labels are marked for their level by a number placed in front of the label name ( e . g . , " 4 : its " , means that the label " its " is marked for the fourth level ) . what gets labeled you can label either points in the signal or selected portions of the signal . the labels for selected portions are placed at the center of the selection and are marked by angular brackets ( " ) . . . ( " ) . re-editing , adding and deleting labels labels can be re-edited , new labels can be added anywhere in the signal , and labels can be deleted individually or for an entire signal . reproduce labeled segment while the label is open for editing , you can play the selected portion of the signal by doing command - y . if you ' re labeling a selection , and if you ' ve set the audio to play signal selections , you ' ll hear the segment which you ' re about to label . align labels you can choose any of nine different vertical positions for placing labels . when you close a label with a click in the close rectangle or with return , the label automatically " snaps " to the nearest standard position . save labels the label information is saved as a tab - delimited text file with the extension " . lbl " . it is stored in the same folder as the signal file . label format the label format is in the public domain and is fully documented . it is available on the signalyze servers ( see below ) . transparent saving and opening open file operations on signal files that have accompanying " . lbl " text files cause the label information to be read into signalyze . save file operations on signals with labeling information automatically saves the labels in the same folder as the signal . save file operations for signals without labeling information erases whatever label file may have existed in the folder . label in phonetics you can use any phonetic or normal font in the labels . however for phonetics , it is recommended stick to sigpalfont ( the shareware font supplied with signalyze ) . sigpalfont preserves the numbers and angular brackets you need to indicate labeling levels , which is usually not possible with other phonetic fonts . search by label or by level you can search for labels using either a given labeling level or the label 's name . you can specify two separate search patterns . switch between the two patterns with the shift-lock key . more info and demo information on signalyze version 3 . 0 is available as follows : by ftp : ftp macfl4082 . unil . ch or ftp 130 . 223 . 104 . 31 login anonymous by gopher server : name of machine : gopher . unil . ch , find " europe " and " switzerland " , select " university of lausanne " , select " autres gophers de l3unil " , select " faculte des lettres " , select " laboratoire d3analyse informatique de la parole ( laip ) " , select " speech analysis and speech synthesis " , select " signalyze " prof . eric keller ( new email address : eric . keller @ imm . unil . ch ) laboratoire d ' analyse / / ^ | | | | = = \ \ informatique de la parole ( laip ) / / / \ | | | | | | lettres , universite de lausanne / / / / \ \ | | | | = = / / ch-1015 lausanne , switzerland / / / / = = = \ \ | | | | fax + 41 21 6924639 / + 41 21 692 4510 / / = = = = / / \ \ | | | | " . 6 . ucla - uppsala analysis package ( to run on macrecorder files ) " write to : software manager , phonetics lab , linguistics dept , ucla , los angeles , ca 90024-1543 for our order form . it 's $ 5 for just this disk . " ( peter ladefoged ) 7 . gw instruments soundscope ( formerly macspeechlab ii ) ( mac ) " more able to be tailored to individual uses than csl , but also a little clumsier and slower than csl . i think it runs about $ 3000 . " ( alex francis ) c ) for unix 1 . xwaves + it costs around $ 5000 and the manufacturer is : " entropic research laboratory , inc . 600 pennsylvania ave . , se washington dc 20003 usa " ( franke ingolf ) 2 . dsp ( it has the same specifications with the sfs that has been presented above , about dos / windows ) . 3 . sfs ( it has the same specifications with the sfs that has been presented above , about dos / windows ) . 4 . digital ears no more information , only the name of the manufacturer , i . e . metaresearch 5 . ogi speech " this is free ! ! ! i have never used it professionally , but while working at los alamos nat ' l . labs i did get a chance to play with it . it comes with a good manual , and works with a number of different sound-file types , and can be configured for a number of different platforms ( sun & sgi ) . . . . it needs some additional hardware . " ( alex francis ) . 6 . entropic sps software that runs through the xwaves + package . i do not know its prise ; also , i did not understand if it is a latest software improvement of xwaves + . " address : entropic research laboratory , inc . 600 pennsylvania ave . , se washington dc 20003 usa " ( franke ingolf ) additional information : read , buder & kent . ( 1992 ) ' speech analysis systems : an evaluation ' , journal of speech and hearing research , 35 , 314-332 . p . c . bagshaw , s . m . hiller & m . a . jack , ( 1993 ) , ' enhanced pitch tracking and the processing of f0 contours for computer aided intonation teaching ' , proc . 3rd european conference on speech communication and technology , pp 1003 - 6 finally , " natural language software registry the natural language software registry is a catalogue of software implementing core natural language processing techniques , whether available on a commercial or non commercial basis . the current version includes + speech signal processors , such as the computerised speech lab ( kay electronics ) + morphological analysers , such as pc-kimmo ( summer institute for linguistics ) + parsers , such as alveytools ( university of edinburgh ) + knowledge representation systems , such as rhet ( university of rochester ) + multicomponent systems , such as elu ( issco ) , penman ( isi ) , pundit ( unisys ) , sneps ( suny buffalo ) , + applications programs ( misc . ) this document is available on-line via anonymous ftp to ftp . dfki . uni-sb . de ( directory : registry ) , by email to registry @ dfki . uni-sb . de , and by physical mail to the address below . if you have developed a piece of software for natural language processing that other researchers might find useful , you can include it by returning the description form below . if you are interested in the preliminary draft of the registry , do not hesitate to drop us an email message and we will be happy to send it to you . " ( jane edwards )
