Subject: nsf division director for sber - - announcement

i encourage qualified readers of linguist to give serious consideration to the following announcement soliciting applications for the position of division director for social , behavioral and economic research at the national science foundation , and to pass the announcement on to others who may be interested . this is a genuinely open search . applications and nominations should be addressed as indicated in the announcement , and not sent to linguist or to me . paul chapin , nsf * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * december 1 , 1994 dear colleague : i am seeking your assistance in identifying potential candidates for the position of division director for social , behavioral and economic research . dr . allan kornberg , who has been division director since september 1993 under an intergovernmental personnel act ( ipa ) assignment , will be returning to duke university at the end of his two-year assignment . the successor appointment may be in the senior executive service ( ses ) or as an intergovernmental personnel act ( ipa ) assignment . a position announcement is enclosed . this announcement may also be accessed electronically under vacancy announcements on nsf 's science and technology information system ( stis ) . the division director for social , behavioral and economic research ( sber ) manages one of the largest research divisions in the foundation . the division has a staff of 50 employees and a budget of over $ 80 million . the sber division is responsible for supporting disciplinary and interdisciplinary research and other activities through programs organized into five clusters : anthropological and geographic sciences ; cognitive , psychological , and language sciences ; economic , decision , and management sciences ; social and political sciences ; and science , technology , and society . i look forward to any help you may be able to offer in this search for candidates with outstanding scientific and administrative qualifications . i am especially interested in identifying women , members of minority groups and disabled individuals for consideration . please send nominations , including self-nominations , with curriculum vitae , to my acting executive officer , ms . margaret l . windus , no later than february 1 , 1995 . thank you for your assistance . sincerely yours , cora b . marrett assistant director = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = national science foundation arlington , va 22230 announcement number ep 95 - 3 director , division of social , behavioral and economic research directorate for social , behavioral and economic sciences nsf 's directorate for social , behavioral and economic sciences is seeking qualified candidates for the position of director , division of social , behavioral and economic research . nsf is inviting nominations ( including self-nominations ) of persons who are interested in either a two-to - three year senior executive service ( ses ) appointment or an intergovernmental personnel act ( ipa ) assignment . internal and external applicants are encouraged to apply . a statement of duties of the position and a list of qualification requirements are included on the reverse side of this announcement . the announcement may also be accessed electronically under vacancy announcements on nsf 's science and technology information system ( stis ) . o ses limited term appointment the ses covers managerial positions above grade 15 in the federal service . ses limited term appointees are federal employees and may serve for a period of up to three years . they are eligible for federal benefits ( i . e . , health benefits , life insurance coverage , social security , retirement , thrift savings plan , annual and sick leave ) . o ipa assignment initial assignments under the ipa may be made for a period of up to two years . individuals eligible for an ipa assignment with a federal agency include employees of state and local government agencies or institutions of higher education , indian tribal governments , and other eligible organizations in instances where such assignments would be of mutual benefit to the organizations involved . the individual remains an employee of the home institution and cost sharing arrangements are generally negotiated between nsf and the home institution . please submit nominations ( including self-nominations ) , along with a curriculum vitae to : ms . margaret l . windus acting executive officer , directorate for social , behavioral and economic sciences national science foundation 4201 wilson boulevard , suite 905 arlington , va 22230 phone : 703-306 - 1741 fax : 703-306 - 0495 internet : mwindus @ nsf . gov the closing date for receipt of applications is february 1 , 1995 . statement of duties : manages the nsf division responsible for funding research in the areas of social , behavioral and economic sciences . assesses research needs and trends , presents plans for future development , determines funding requirements , prepares and justifies budget estimates , balances program needs , allocates resources , oversees the evaluation of proposals and recommendations for awards and declinations , supervises staff , and represents nsf to relevant external groups . qualification requirements executive / managerial essential 1 . demonstrated ability to achieve organizational objectives through the supervision and management of subordinates . includes knowledge and ability relating to the recruitment , selection , supervision and development of professional and support staff involved in diverse endeavors . 2 . knowledge of and ability to plan multidisciplinary research programs in the social , behavioral and / or economic sciences ; to present and advocate program plans or recommendations to peer groups or higher level decision-making groups ; and to allocate resources within broad budgetary limitations . 3 . ability to coordinate effectively with representatives of scientific and engineering communities , both nationally and internationally , including industrial and / or academic researchers and the administrators of research and educational institutions . 4 . demonstrated ability , at the decision-making level , to prepare long-range and annual plans , conduct periodic reviews to determine progress and , if necessary , initiate remedial action . desirable 1 . skill in changing and balancing complex and diverse program demands with available resources , in response to major advances or needs in scientific research and technological developments . 2 . demonstrated ability to exercise sound professional judgment in recommending the initiation of research in the social , behavioral and economic sciences . 3 . skill in the management or administration of a large-scale research activity including implementation of resource allocation plans . professional / technical essential 1 . ph . d . or equivalent professional experience or a combination of education and equivalent experience in anthropology , economics , geography , linguistics , political science , psychology , sociology , or other social or behavioral science . 2 . substantial research contributions and strong evidence of scholarship in a social , behavioral , or economic science field , as evidenced in publications , or innovative leadership in research administration . 3 . demonstrated knowledge of relevant academic community and recognized professional standing in the scientific community as evidenced by publications and / or professional awards . desirable 1 . demonstrated broad knowledge of diverse fields of the social , behavioral and economic sciences . 2 . knowledge of grant and contract administration , fiscal management , and budget preparation with experience in scientific research support . nsf is an equal opportunity employer committed to employing a highly qualified staff that reflects the diversity of our nation .
