Subject: aisb96 call for workshop proposals

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - aisb-96 : call for workshop proposals - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - call for workshop proposals : aisb-96 university of sussex , brighton , england april 1 - - 2 , 1996 society for the study of artificial intelligence and simulation of behaviour ( ssaisb ) workshop series chair : dave cliff , university of sussex local organisation chair : alison white , university of sussex the aisb is the uk 's largest and foremost artificial intelligence society - - now in it 's 32nd year . the society has an international membership of nearly 900 drawn from both academia and industry . membership is open to anyone with interests in artifical intelligence and the cognitive and computing sciences . the aisb committee invites proposals for workshops to be held at the university of sussex campus , on april 1st and 2nd , 1996 . the aisb workshop series is held in even years during the easter vacation . in odd years workshops are held immediately before the biennial conference . the intention of holding a regular workshop series is to provide an administrative and organisational framework for workshop organisers , thus reducing the administrative burden for individuals and freeing them to focus on the scientific programme . accommodation , food , and social events are organised for all workshop participants by the local organisers . proposals are invited for workshops relating to any aspect of artificial intelligence or the simulation of behaviour . proposals , from an individual or a pair of organisers , for workshops between 0 . 5 and 2 days long will be considered . workshops will probably address topics which are at the forefront of research , but perhaps not yet sufficiently developed to warrant a full-scale conference . in addition to research workshops , a ' postgraduate workshop ' has become a successful regular event over recent years . this event focuses on how to survive the process of studying for a phd in ai / cognitive science , and has a hybrid workshop / tutorial nature . we welcome proposals , particularly from current phd survivors , to organise the 1996 postgraduate workshop at sussex . for further information on organising the postgraduate workshop , please see the aisb96 web page ( address below ) or contact dave cliff or alison white . proposals for tutorials will also be considered , and will be assessed on individual merit : please contact dave cliff or alison white for further details of submission of tutorial proposals . it is the general policy of aisb to only approve tutorials which look likely to be financially viable . submission : - - - - - - - - - - a workshop proposal should contain the following information : 1 . workshop title 2 . a detailed outline of the workshop . this should include the necessary background and the potential target audience for the workshop and a justified estimate of the number of possible attendees . please also state the length and preferred date ( s ) of the workshop . specify any equipment requirements , indicating whether the organisers would be expected to meet them . 3 . a brief resume of the organiser ( s ) . this should include : background in the research area , references to published work in the topic area and relevant experience , such as previous organisation or chairing of workshops . 4 . administrative information . this should include : name , mailing address , phone number , fax , and email address if available . in the case of multiple organisers , information for each organiser should be provided , but one organiser should be identified as the principal contact . 5 . a draft call for participation . this should serve the dual purposes of informing and attracting potential participants . the organisers of accepted workshops are responsible for issuing a call for participation , reviewing requests to participate and scheduling the workshop activities within the constraints set by the workshop organiser . they are also responsible for submitting a collated set of papers for their workshop to the workshop series chair . workshop participants will receive bound photocopies of the collated set of papers , with copyright retained by the authors . individual workshop organisers may wish to approach publishers to discuss publication of workshop papers in journal or book forms . dates : - - - - - intentions to organise a workshop should be made known to the workshop series chair ( dave cliff ) as soon as possible . proposals must be received by october 1st 1995 . workshop organisers will be notified by october 15th 1995 . organisers should be prepared to send out calls for workshop participation as soon as possible after this date . collated sets of papers to be received by march 15th 1996 . proposals should be sent to : dave cliff aisb96 workshop series chair school of cognitive and computing sciences university of sussex brighton bn1 9qh u . k . email : davec @ cogs . susx . ac . uk phone : + 44 1273 678754 fax : + 44 1273 671320 electronic submission ( plain ascii text ) is highly preferred , but hard copy submission is also accepted , in which case 5 copies should be submitted . proposals should not exceed 2 sides of a4 ( i . e . 120 lines of text approx . ) . general enquiries should be addressed to : alison white aisb96 local organisation chair school of cognitive and computing sciences university of sussex brighton bn1 9qh u . k . email : alisonw @ cogs . susx . ac . uk phone : + 44 1273 678448 fax : + 44 1273 671320 a copy of this call , with further details for workshop organisers ( including a full schedule ) , is available on the www from : http : / / www . cogs . susx . ac . uk / aisb / aisb96 / cfw . html a plain - ascii version of the web page is available via anonymous ftp from : % ftp ftp . cogs . susx . ac . uk login : anonymous password : [ your _ email @ your _ address ] ftp cd pub / aisb / aisb96 ftp get [ filename ] * ftp quit * files available at present are : readme call _ for _ proposals
