Subject: defend yourself against criminals

would you be able to defend yourself if attacked on the street ? ? ? hello - most people could n't answer that question with any confidence . with todays crime rate and drug abuse problem , it 's a question that everyone needs to ask themselves . crime statistics from the bureau of justice state that : - 25 % of violent crimes occur at or near the victim 's home - 14 % at school and 12 % at commercial establishments ( stores ) - a woman is raped every 2 minutes in america - 1 out of every 4 rapes takes place in a public area or a parking garage . - 23 % reported being involved with a leisure activity at the time they were victimized . - 21 % reported they were at work or traveling to or from work when the crime occurred . as you can see , a violent crime can happen to anyone at any time regardless of where you live or work . these crimes consisted of assault , robbery , carjacking , rape and murder . based on these statistics , it 's almost guaranteed that you will be the victim of a violent crime at some point in your life . will you react ? ? ? ? i ' ve been studying the martial arts for fifteen years and have been an instructor for thirteen of them . i ' ve been fortunate enough to have studied under some of the best instructors in the country . i currently have a black belt in kenpo karate and have studied tae kwan do , kung fu and i am currently studying hapkido and isfa shootfighting . my video , " a chance to escape " , will show you how to defend yourself against the seven most common types of attacks on the street . i will show you self defense techniques that anyone from ages eight to eighty can learn and use to defend themselves . these techniques are quick and easy to learn and can be the difference between life or death if you are attacked on the street . my video uses easy to understand terms for younger children . this video is a must for any college student ( male or female ) . the techniques in this video are not only good for self defense but for building confidence when out in public . senior citizens and middle age adults will gain the most benefit from this video . it will also give you helpful hints on how to carry packages and purses so they won't get taken , how to avoid looking like a victim , and how to use common objects as weapons to fend off even the most aggressive attacker . with so many self defense videos on the market , it is about time that there was one made for people who want one simple and effective so they can actually use the techniques within minutes of learning them . the best part is that you won't have to study karate for fifteen years in order to do these techniques . just a few short minutes and you will understand how effective you can be . when it comes right down to it , you are your own best judge as to whether you feel safe or not . my video will help you to feel that you have an edge on anyone who may try to attack you . it 's impossible to know when or where a violent crime will happen and the last thing you want to be is the victim . this video gives you the chance you need to react and avoid becoming a victim . all you really need is " a chance to escape . " to order my video " a chance to escape " send check or money order in u . s . funds only for $ 19 . 95 + ( $ 4 . 95 s / h ) to : escape enterprises llc p . o . box 1657 meriden , ct . 06451 sorry , no cod 's . please allow 2 - 3 weeks for delivery . do n't be a victim - fight back k
