Subject: linguistic data consortium ( ldc )

content - length : 3687 the linguistic data consortium ( ldc ) of the university of pennsylvania is collecting telephone speech for three major studies this summer , and we are asking all members of the research community at large to participate in making them a success . the calls are being collected on a new intervoice robotoperator platform that has dramatically increased the ldc 's ability to collect telephone speech . the new system allows up to twelve two channel calls or 24 one channel calls to go on at the same time . up to 20 hours of conversation can be stored before it is necessary to download data ; the download as well as many programming changes can be made without interrupting the application itself . in effect , the application will be operational for 24 hours per day . the projects are as follows : for voice across hispanic america , we need native speakers of spanish ( from any country ) who can call an 800 telephone number and spend five minutes on the telephone reading a series of sentences . participants can receive $ 5 . 00 for their time . for callhome , native speakers of english , egyptian arabic , german , japanese , mandarin and spanish can make a free call to another native speaker from an 800 telephone number anywhere in the world and talk for 30 minutes . participants can receive either $ 10 . 00 or free telephone time . for callfriend , native speakers of english , spanish , tamil , hindi , japanese , french , farsi , german , korean , egyptian arabic and vietnamese can can make a free call to another native speaker from an 800 telephone number anywhere in the u . s . , canada or puerto rico and talk free for 30 minutes . participants can receive either $ 10 . 00 or free telephone time . individuals or organizations who can recruit at least ten callers should contact us to discuss various incentive programs for all three projects . the recordings will be used for nonprofit scientific research and instructional purposes , and are made available to researchers and educators from all over the world on an equal basis . to receive more information , or to get a personal identification number and instructions for making calls , please call us at 1-800 - 380-penn ( 7366 ) between 9 a . m . and 5 p . m . est , or send email to one of the following addresses : voice across hispanic america vaha @ unagi . cis . upenn . edu callhome callhome @ unagi . cis . upenn . edu callfriend callfriend @ unagi . cis . upenn . edu for further information about the project or for other information about the linguistic data consortium , please contact us ldc @ unagi . cis . upenn . edu , or you can access our www home page at ftp : / / www . cis . upenn . edu / pub / ldc _ www / hpage . html . you can also send mail to us at the address below : rebecca finch | linguistic data consortium research coordinator | 441 williams hall finch @ unagi . cis . upenn . edu | university of pennsylvania tel : 215 / 898-0464 / fax : 215 / 573-2175 | philadelphia , pa 19104-6305
