Subject: notice to subscribers

moderators ' note : as some of you have noted , we have fallen behind in posting messages this summer . the reason is that we are extremely shorthanded right now . as you know , none of our student editors is paid during the summer , so if they want to go to the lsa institute ( ljuba and anna ) , take a " real " 9 - 5 : 00 job ( ron ) , or even get married ( ann ) , all we can say is : a ) godspeed b ) boy , do we now realize how much work you were doing all year ! we have n't edited without help since the list was 1000 subscribers . now it 's 6500 ; and we find that we simply can't keep up in the time we have to give to linguist . ( unfortunately , our universities expect us to teach , write , run academic programs , and otherwise pretend we ' re professors . editing linguist is strictly extra-curricular . ) all this is said , not in order to complain , but simply to ask for your patience with the inevitable slowdown . at this point , we do n't see anything we can do about it . however , in a few weeks , things should improve . ann ( bride of 2 weeks ! ) is helping out now when she can ; and the others will help out again when they get settled . also , software that will make the editing faster should be in place by the end of summer . but , of course , the real solution would be paid editors in the summer , i . e . , grad students on fellowship and enrolled in summer school . thus , we want to thank - - most heartily - - those of you who have contributed to the linguist development fund that makes possible fellowships for student editors . after told you in april that we were $ 5000 short of the $ 8000 we need to retain ljuba and ann , you responded most generously . we received about 200 contributions ranging from $ 5 to $ 500 and coming from all parts of the globe . we are extremely grateful for contributions of all sizes - - and for the many encouraging notes we received as well . the list of 1995 contributors below includes grad students , professors , departments , universities , and commercial and non-commercial publishers . please take a minute to read through it , as we would like to make sure that supporters are recognized - - particularly organizations and publishers , who contribute more as a service to the discipline than for commercial benefits . unfortunately , we are still short of our goal . if you ' ve been thinking of contributing but have n't gotten around to it yet , we 'd very much appreciate your help . please send your contributions to : linguist editorial support fund c / o english dept . eastern michigan u . ypsilanti , mi 48197 usa and , once again , our most sincere thanks to the individuals and institutions listed below . - helen & anthony - - - - - - - - - - 1995 contributors - - - - - - - - valued supporters : anonymous ( 3 ) barbara abbott maher awad yukiko sasaki alam robert beard elabbas benmamoun robert chandler linda coleman alan cienki donna cromer stanley dubinsky bethany dumas susan fischer frank gladney john grinstead yukio hirose alice horning shin ja hwang frances ingemann margaret jackman james jenkins brian joseph martin jung carolyn kirkpatrick yuriko kite ernest mccarus scott mcginnis deborah mandelbaum jeff marck susan pintzuk terence potter mel resnick burton rosner catherine rudin janine scanarelli makoto shimizu beth simon patrons ( $ 50 or more ) : anonymous australia national university ( for pacific linguistics press ) michael bernstein ( for cascadilla press ) garland bills claude boisson e . wayles browne tucker childs bernard comrie julia falk james harris carolyn herrarte richard hudson roderick jacobs karen jensen ( w / matching funds from microsoft ) james kirchner tadao miyamato katsuhiko momoi daniel radzinski alexis manaster ramer barbara pearson joe salmons & monica macaulay ucla yutaka sato ernest scatton karen stanley karl teeter theo vennemann mainstays ( $ 100 or more ) : anonymous victoria fromkin arnold zwicky university of helsinki ? elsevier science ltd . globalink : the translation co . holland academic graphics indiana university linguistics club publications linguistics dept . , academica sinica john benjamins , inc . kluwer academic publishing lawrence erlbaum macquarie dictionary the mit press ( book dept . ) the mit press ( journals dept . ) the mit working papers in linguistics summer institute of linguistics
