Subject: sum : syntax texts

content - length : 3080 a little over a week ago , i posted a query to linguist asking for suggestions for a textbook for an undergraduate course in syntax . i would like to thank the following people for their kind replies : robert beard , philip carpenter , kevin b cohen , brian lindsey , alan munn , helene ossipov , john phillips , and robin sackmann . i also received replies from several people asking about my reluctance to deal with cambridge university press , and several others asking why i have decided not to use napoli 's * syntax * again . i have replied to both of these groups privately . the query about syntax texts was worded in such a way as to eliminate napoli and radford from consideration . with that limitation imposed , haegemann 's * introduction to government and binding theory * was recommended by three people . none of the other books was mentioned more than once . however , some of these single mentions were most useful for me because they brought to my attention works that i had not heard of before or ones that i might not have considered otherwise . the complete list is given below . my thanks again to all who responded . steve seegmiller linguistics department montlciar state university ( seegmiller @ apollo . montclair . edu ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - charles bird and timothy shopen , article on maninka in timothy shopen ( ed . ) languages and their speakers ( or . . . status ) . university of pennsylvania press . keith brown & jim miller , syntax - a linguistic introduction to sentence structure . harper collins academic , 2nd ed . 1991 . vivian cook , chomsky 's universal grammar , 2nd ed . blackwell 's 1996 . elizabeth cowper , concise intro to syntactic theory . liliane haegemann , an introduction to government and binding theory , 2nd ed . blackwell 's lieb , hans - heinrich : integrational linguistics . in : jacobs , j . , et . al ( eds . ) : syntax . an international handbook of contemporary research . berlin ; new york : de gruyter , 1993 . lieb , hans - heinrich : integrational linguistics . in : lieb , hans - heinrich ( ed . ) : prospects for a new structuralism . ( = current issues in linguistic theory [ cilt ] , 96 ) . amsterdam ; philadelphia : benjamins , 1992 . ronald wardhaugh , understanding english grammar : a linguistic aproach . blackwell 1995 . gert webelhuth ( ed . ) , government binding theory and the minimalist program .
