Subject: lexicographer

us-pa - pittsburgh machine translation lexicographer , cmu lexicographer , machine translation applications the catalyst project at the center for machine translation , carnegie mellon university , is seeking a talented and energetic individual for the position of lexicographer . catalyst is a large-scale mt application for commercial document delivery in the domain of heavy machinery . the lexicographer is responsible for the following tasks : * implementation of lexicon refinement / enhancement / maintenance tasks , in support of source and target language lexicon development . the successful applicant must have the following qualifications : * m . a . in linguistics , m . s in computational linguistics or a related field * native or near-native fluency in english * experience developing knowledge sources for language software , preferably large-scale , multi-lingual lexicons for machine translation in technical domains * understanding of the principles of lexicography and terminology management , especially as they relate to semantic accuracy and translatability * demonstrated ability to proactively identify and quantify lexical issues that arise during development / refinement , with special attention paid to issues which span multiple knowledge sources ( e . g . , domain model , tl lexicons , etc . ) . skill and experience in these areas are preferred but not required : * fluency in any of french , spanish , german , italian , portuguese , russian * experience with manual translation in technical domains full - time salaried position , starting range : $ 27 , 000 to $ 30 , 000 usd occasional travel required contact : eric nyberg phone : ( 412 ) 268-7281 center for machine translation fax : ( 412 ) 268-6298 carnegie mellon university email : ehn + @ cs . cmu . edu pittsburgh , pa 15213 usa candidates should send a letter of application , a current vita , at least three letters of reference , and representative samples of their work . resumes , cover letters , etc . may be submitted via email , in ascii or postscript form . resumes may also be submitted by fax or regular mail , but email is preferred . letters of recommendation must be faxed or mailed . applicants from abroad may wish to consider express mail to ensure a timely submission .
