Subject: job : german language etc . in japan

faculty position , keio university ( german ) keio university 's faculty of science and technology at hiyoshi wishes to announce the opening of a full-time position in german language and related areas in the humanities and social sciences , beginning april 1 , 1996 . applicants should be native or near-native speakers of japanese , have completed at least the course requirements for a doctoral degree in the humanities or social sciences , and have at least three years in teaching german . preference will be given to those who already hold a doctoral degree in the areas to be taught . the successful candidate will be appointed at the rank of tenured assistant professor ( shennin koushi ) or tenured associate professor ( jokyouju ) , depending on his or her qualifications and experience . required documents to be submitted : 1 . curriculum vitae , according to the japanese style and format , with one photograph 2 . a list of research papers 3 . three sample publications , three of each , either originals or copies , including the candidate 's major thesis or monograph 4 . a description of the candidate 's future research plans ( approximately two a - 4 pages ) 5 . a statement of the candidate 's views regarding university german language education ( approximately one a - 4 page ) 6 . a description of the candidate 's plan for lecturing in areas other than german language deadline september 9 , 1995 ( the post cancellation mark will serve as validation . ) selection process candidates who pass the initial screening process will be invited of an interview ( travel and lodging will be at the candidate 's own expense ) . direct notification of the date and other details will be subsequently provided . address to which applications and accompanying documents are to be sent : hiyoshi kyoumuka ( rikougakubu ) keio university 4 - 1 - 1 hiyoshi kouhoku - ku , yokohama 223 japan note 1 . applications and accompanying documents should be sent by registered mail , with a notice in red ink , preferably in japanese , noting their contents and the addressee . 2 . applicants should be aware that the submitted materials cannot be returned except in special cases . 3 . e - mail inquiries should be directed to professor keiji nakano ( a01057 @ cc . hc . keio . ac . jp ) .
