Subject: jobs

kyushu institute of technology ( national university ) , kitakyushu city , fukuoka prefecture , japan invites applications for two positions . a full-time instructor of efl beginning april 1 , 1996 . qualifications : a native speaker of english ; ma degree or its equivalent in tefl , applied linguistics , linguistics , literature , international communication or related fields ; under 40 years of age . duties : eight undergraduate / graduate classes per week plus other related departmental responsibilities . contract : initial two years contract , renewable to a maximum of of five years ( by mutual agreement ) . salary and and benefits : salary based on japanese ministry of education scale ; bonuses , transportation from point of origin , health insurance ; research budget of about 600 , 000 yen per year ; conference travel allowance . a fully furnished house is provided and on-campus residence therein is required . application materials : resume with recent passport-size photo , photocopies of all degrees / diplomas ; verifications of past employment ; list of publications ; at least one letter of recommendation ; 500 word essay on " why i 'd like to teach in japan . " deadline : sept 11 , 1995 a full or associate professor of efl beginning april 1 , 1996 . qualifications : a native speaker of japanese ; ma degree or its equivalent in tefl , applied linguistics , linguistics , literature , international communication or related fields ; at least two year teaching experience , over 40 years of age . duties : six undergraduate / graduate classes per week plus other related departmental responsibilities . salary and and benefits : salary based on japanese ministry of education scale ; bonuses , transportation from point of origin , health insurance ; research budget ; conference travel allowance . application materials : resume with recent passport-size photo , list of publications , experts or photocopies of publications , and 200 word abstracts of publications , photocopies of all degrees / diplomas , a photocopy of the certificate of most recent degree with grades , a certificate of physical examination , at least one letter of recommendation . deadline : sept 11 , 1995 contact : shuzo yamanaka ( professor ) department of humanities faculty of engineering kyushu institute of technology 1 - 1 sensui - cho tobata - ku kitakyushu - shi 804 japan fax : + 81 93 884 3400 e - mail enquiries should be sent to ; makoto shimizu ( mr ) shimizu @ dhs . kyutech . ac . jp
