Subject: " english plus " resolution in congress

the " english - plus " resolution below was introduced into the house of representative on july 13 by rep . jose serrano ( d - n . y . ) , along with 31 other democratic cosponsors and one republican , ileana ros - lehtinen ( fla . ) . it is a nonbinding statement of policy intended as counter to six english - only bills now pending in congress . ( these measures include the king bill , h . r . 1005 , which would declare english the official language , end bilingual education and bilingual ballots , and require all government business to be transacted in english ; and the only slightly less restrictive emerson bill , h . r . 123 , which likewise declares english the official language and ends all federal funding for bilingual education . the emerson bill has more than 120 sponsors and is held to be likely to pass this year ; hearings will probably be scheduled once the present conflicts over the budget are resolved . ) some opponents of english - only measures have felt that the wording of this resolution is not as strong as they would like , particularly as it makes only indirect reference to bilingual education programs . still , its passage would have an important symbolic effect , and even if it should be defeated in committee , it will at least help to draw the battle lines over this issue . the lsa executive committee voted at its meeting this may to give its support to this resolution ; and in a mail ballot a few years ago the membership of the society declared its opposition to english - only measures by a margin of 94 to 6 percent . individual linguists may want to make their views on the english - plus resolution known to members of the house committee on economic and educational opportunities , whose names follow the text of the resolution below . committee members can be reached at : the honorable _ _ _ _ _ _ _ u . s . house of representatives washington , dc 20515 geoff nunberg concurrent resolution entitled , the ` ` english plus resolution ' ' . whereas english is the primary language of the united states , and all members of the society recognize the importance of english to national life and individual accomplishment ; whereas many residents of the united states speak native languages other than english , including many languages indigenous to this country , and these linguistic resources should be conserved and developed ; whereas this nation was founded on a commitment to democratic principles , and not on racial , ethnic , or religious homogeneity , and has drawn strength from a diversity of languages and cultures and from a respect for individual liberties ; whereas multilingualism , or the ability to speak languages in addition to english , is a tremendous resource to the united states because such ability enhances american competitiveness in global markets by permitting improved communication and cross-cultural understanding between producers and suppliers , vendors and clients , retailers and consumers ; whereas multilingualism improves united states diplomatic efforts by fostering enhanced communication and greater understanding between nations ; whereas multilingualism has historically been an essential element of national security , including the use of native american languages in the development of coded communications during world war ii , the korean war , and the vietnam war ; whereas multilingualism promotes greater cross-cultural understanding between different racial and ethnic groups in the united states ; whereas there is no threat to the status of english in the united states , a language that is spoken by 94 percent of united states residents , according to the 1990 united states census , and there is no need to designate any official united states language or to adopt similar restrictionist legislation ; whereas ` ` english - only ' ' measures , or proposals to designate english as the sole official language of the united states , would violate traditions of cultural pluralism , divide communities along ethnic lines , jeopardize the provision of law enforcement , public health , education , and other vital services to those whose english is limited , impair government efficiency , and undercut the national interest by hindering language skills needed to enhance international competitiveness and conduct diplomacy ; and whereas such ` ` english - only ' ' measures would represent an unwarranted federal regulation of self-expression , abrogate constitutional rights to freedom of expression and equal protection of the laws , violate international human rights treaties to which the united states is a signatory , and contradict the spirit of the 1923 supreme court case meyer v . nebraska , wherein the court declared that ` ` the protection of the constitution extends to all ; to those who speak other languages as well as to those born with english on the tongue ' ' ; now , therefore , be it resolved by the house of representatives ( the senate concurring ) , that the united states government should pursue policies that - - ( 1 ) encourage all residents of this country to become fully proficient in english by expanding educational opportunities ; ( 2 ) conserve and develop the nation 's linguistic resources by encouraging all residents of this country to learn or maintain skills in a language other than english ; ( 3 ) assist native americans , native alaskans , native hawaiians , and other peoples indigenous to the united states , in their efforts to prevent the extinction of their languages and cultures ; ( 4 ) continue to provide services in languages other than english as needed to facilitate access to essential functions of government , promote public health and safety , ensure due process , promote equal educational opportunity , and protect fundamental rights ; and ( 5 ) recognize the importance of multilingualism to vital american interests and individual rights , and oppose ` ` english - only ' ' measures and similar language restrictionist measures . house committee on economic and educational opportunities republicans democrats william f . goodling ( pa ) , chmn . william " bill " clay ( mo ) thomas e . petri ( wi ) george e . miller ( ca ) marge s . roukema ( nj ) dale e . kildee ( mi ) steven gunderson ( wi ) pat williams ( mt ) harris w . fawell ( il ) matthew g . martinez ( ca ) cass ballenger ( nc ) major r . owens ( ny ) bill barrett ( ne ) thomas g . sawyer ( oh ) randy cunningham ( ca ) donald m . payne ( nj ) peter hoekstra ( mi ) patsy t . mink ( hi ) howard mckeon ( ca ) robert e . andrews ( nj ) michael castle ( de ) john f . " jack " reed ( ri ) jan meyers ( ks ) timothy j . roemer ( in ) sam johnson ( tx ) eliot l . engel ( ny ) james talent ( mo ) xavier becerra ( ca ) james greenwood ( pa ) robert c . " bobby " scott ( va ) tim hutchinson ( ar ) gene green ( tx ) joe knollenberg ( mi ) lynn woolsey ( ca ) frank riggs ( ca ) carlos a . romero - barcelo ( pr ) lindsey graham ( sc ) mel reynolds ( il ) dave weldon ( fl ) david funderburk ( nc ) mark souder ( in ) david mcintosh ( in ) charles norwood ( ga )
