Subject: linguist list corrections

full - time associate or full professorships from april 1996 english language program french language program german language program nagoya university of commerce and business administration invites applications from associate or full professors with relevant academic and teaching experience . a doctorate degree in linguistics , education or relevant regional studies field and teaching experience is a must . applicants must be well-published ( at least 20 works ) academics of high professional standing . the faculty member will be expected to give language classes and lecture on the cultural and social background of the region . the initial contract of employment is generally for a minimum period of two years . thereafter , pending the mutual agreement of employer and employee , the contract is renewable annually . starting salary is established according to qualifications and experience - the present salary range is from 9 - 11 million yen per annum . faculty normally teach eight 90 minute periods per week - monday to friday . the school year is organised into two 15 week semesters : 1st april - end july september - mid february the summer break is approximately 6 weeks long . the winter break is approximately 3 weeks long . there is also a 6 week spring ' break ' - because of official commitments travel outside japan during this period is subject to approval . accommodation is not provided for faculty , however every assistance is given in finding a suitable location and drawing up contracts . financial assistance is offered in the form of an interest-free advance for arrival expenses . a low-interest car loan is available . return air-fare is provided . the campus is situated on the outskirts of nagoya ( 3rd largest city in japan ) . nagoya is at the heart of the industrial zone of japan and is a coastal city within easy reach of tokyo ( 2 hours ) , osaka ( 1 . 5 hours ) and many other areas of historical and cultural interest . the language center is superbly appointed with advanced computer facilities and modern amenities . every student has a macintosh computer ( powerbook 520 ) . at present our language faculty consists of about twenty-five members who teach english , chinese , french , german , korean and thai . please send ( or fax if possible ) applications to : melanie bowyer executive assistant to the president nagoya university of commerce and business administration 4 - 4 sagamine komenoki - cho nisshin - city aichi 470-01 japan telephone : 81 ( 05617 ) 3-2111 fax : 81 ( 05617 ) 3-1202 e-mail : mbowyer @ nucba . ac . jp
