Subject: summary : pig latins

in may , 1996 , i published a request for information on foreign pig latins . i apologize for the delay in summarizing the results . you can thank dan downs and waruno mahdi for keeping me honest and inspiring me to do this at last . i got such a great response that it was an intmidating job . forgive me ! i had n't taken the time to summarize the results until now , but here are the languages and rules that i was given . i appreciate the information ! thanks to the following contributors in totally random order : neil bermel william byrne " nadine " robert lyle good marina yaguello paul de lacy marc picard geoffrey sampson andrew s . mccullough jack aubert nevin leder scott martens billy clark jack hall judit j . toth mark a . wilson marc hamann annabel cormack nancy frishberg john goldsmith forrest richey trey jones dale russell lex olorenshaw liz mckeown marion kee salvatore attardo nobuko koyama - murakami ( which sounds like a language game already ; - ) john goldsmith , who edited the handbook of phonological theory , recommends bruce bagemihl 's survey of pig latins within that book . it was published by basil blackwell 's and reissued in paperback in 1996 . ( this is highly recommended , even by people who are not john goldsmith ! ) everyone said that these are called " language games " rather than " toy languages " , but my family is so competitive that if a game does n't have a winner and loser it 's not a game ! ( hence my use of the word " toy " ! ) here are specific examples : chinese : onsset of a typical monosyllabic word is prepended to a different rime , which is suffixed to a different onset ( possibly k ) " zhai kang " for " zhang " mandarin : fanquie languages ( each example has its own name , based on the pattern involved ; no example given ) dutch : backward speaking : reverse syllables and sometimes words ( emerged from economic causes - - needed secret speech so other fisherman would n't learn their secrets ) english : insert / ab / between onset and rime of each syllable " maby nabame abis babill " for " my name is bill " . ( also with / ^ b / , called " ubby dubby " ; sample at very end ) gibberish : insert " itherg " after each consonant " bithergy thitherga witherrgay " for " by the way " bicycle : insert @ s ( schwa s ) after every consonant : " h @ se t @ sold m @ sse " for " he told me " eggegg langeggwagegg : add ' egg ' after every consonant : " theganksegg yeggou " for " thank you " zambuda : english pronounced wrong in every possible way ! long vowels became short ; c pronounced s when should have been k . " @ - nosk beh-faw - re een-tee - rynj " for " knock before entering " yardle bardle : those particular words were interspersed in such a way that the victim - - er , eavesdropper - - could never figure out the rules . ob-talk , from the firesign theatre : " ob " before words ( breaks down into raucous imitation of rooster calls at a cockfight ) arp-bark : put / arp / before " first vowel of every syllable " ( and i thought there was only one vowel per syllable anyway ) " harpellarpo " for " hello " french : verlan : individual words are said backwwords . " verlan " for " l ' enverse " ( meaning " backwords " " zomblou " for " blouson " ( jacket ) german : " lav " inserted after vowels . " ilavich wohlavonelave ilavin balavad holavombulavurg " for " ich wohne in bad hombburg " hungarian : put " v " after the vowel and repeat the vowel : " tu - vudsz i-vigy be-ve - sze ' - ve ' - lni ' vi " for " tudsz igy besze ' lni " more advanced : say / rg / isntead of / v / . italian : " latino maccheronico " - not the same thing . uses italian roots and attaches latin inflection morphology for humorous effect . italian language game : subsstitute initial consonant with " f " " fatino faccheronic " for " latino maccheronico " japanese : ba - bi-bu - be-bo language : insert " b " plus vowel between syllables " waba taba sibi waba " for " watasi-wa " portuguese : sima language : insert " sima " [ after vowels , i think ] " quecima-rosima cocima-mesima ( or cocima-mercima ) alcima-gocima ) for " quero comer algo " linga do pe : ( language of the letter p ) here 's how one version of it works : 1 . add [ p ] to the end of each syllable . 2 . after the [ p ] you just added to the syllable , copy the rime of that syllable . ( rime = nucleus plus coda ) . 3 . change open syllables in closed [ o ] and [ e ] to the open vowels [ o ] and [ e ] , respectively . 4 . disregard the stress patterns of the original word / sentence ; instead , stress the * copy * of each rime . example : voce ^ cortou o seu cabelo ? did you cut your hair ? vopo ' - cepe ' corpor ' - toupou ' opo ' seupeu ' capa ' - bepe ' - lopo ' ? another person sent this example : " quepe-ropo copo-mepe alpo-gopo " for " quero comer algo " russian : fufajskij yazyk : place " fu " before every syllable in a word : " fuprifuyet " for " privet " porosyachia latin ( pig latin ) : can be formed different ways . military pig latin : " ka " instead of " fu " : " katy kakukada kaseikachas kaikadiosh " for " ty kuda sejchas idiosh " spanish : insert [ vf ] between onset and rime of each syllable , where [ v ] is the vowel of the rime : " mefe llafamofo bifill " for " me llamo bill " insert / po / to the end of each syllable : " copomopo espotaspo " for " como estas " yakut : " pig latin " - - imitation of " russian pig latin " ( no examples given ) thanks again to everyone for your contributions and interest . i ' ll eagerly accept further contributions at my new address : markell8 @ aolcom yubbu gubbuys ubbar grubbate ! ubay hubope yubbu uball hubbav ubba gubbood subbumubber !
