Subject: diachrony and the minimalist program

a few weeks ago i posted a query on the ' list regarding references for studies carried out within the framework of the minimalist program . thanks a lot for the answers and here are they are in a " kind of " shortened version : - ) . mark douglas arnold ( mdarnold @ wam . umd . edu ) offered his dissertation about the loss of verb movement in english of which a highly condensed versions can be found in the proceedings of nels 26 , and the proceedings of wccfl 15 . arnold , mark d . ( 1996 ) . double object constructions and indirect object passives : problems posed by history " , in proceedings of wccfl 15 , pp . 1-15 . arnold , mark d . ( 1995a ) . case , periphrastic " do " , and the loss of verb movement in english " . phd dissertation , university of maryland . arnold , mark d . ( 1995b ) . " notations of economy in language chance : the spread of perphrastic " do " , in proceedings of nels 26 , pp . 121-134 . deborah arteaga ( darteaga @ nevada . edu ) has done some studies on old french within the framework of minimalism , of which i only list the newest ones , the others can be seen on her homepage , accessible through ( http : / / www . nscee . edu : 80 / unlv / colleges / college _ of _ liberal _ art / foreign _ languages / ) deborah artega ( to appear ) . sobre la construcci = f3n de complemento objeto doble en el franc = e9s antiguo , in : " revista de filologia francesa de la universidad complutense de madrid " . - / - . ( 1995 ) . on old french genitive constructions , selected proceedings from the twenty - second linguistic _ symposium on the romance languages , in " contemporary research in romance linguistics : papers from the 22nd linguistic symposium on the romance languages , pp . 79 - 90 . - / - . ( 1995 ) on strong and weak possessives in old french , in : " language quarterly 333 , pp . 67-80 . cassian braconnier ( cassian @ worldnet . net ) informed me about a book by jean - yves pollock which touches upon diachrony and mp . jean - yves pollock , langage et cognition , introduction au programme minimaliste de la grammaire generative , especially pages 148 , 153 , 160 and 166 . mark hale ( hale1 @ alcor . concordia . ca ) informed me about an article he is just about to finish , a book of his of which the syntax portion is written in the minimalism framework , as well as about an article in the nels : mark hale ( to appear ) the diachronic implications of mimimalism , in : " interdisciplinary syntax " - / - ( to appear ) , " theory and method in historical linguistics " , blackwell stefan frisch , ( 1995 ) , evidence for economy of projection in historical change , " nels " , vol 2 . p . 191 - 203 . henrik rosenkvist ( henrik rosenkvist @ nordlund . lu . se ) contributed : eithne guilfoyle ( 1995 ) infinitivals and the transparency principle revisited , in : " nels " , vol 2 . p . 205 - 209 . and luis silva - villar ( lsilvav @ ucla . edu ) told me about his dissertation : silva - villar , luis ( 1996 ) . enclisis in northwestern iberian languages : a diachronic theory . university of california , los angeles . thanks again to everyone for your contributions and interest . i ' ll eagerly accept further informations on diachrony and minimalism : - ) . susann
