Subject: forwarded : ucla jobs / temporary ( 97-98 )

ucla jobs / temporary ( 97-98 ) priority normal the ucla department of linguistics expects to have several short-term jobs available teaching various courses in the coming academic year ( 1997-98 ) . most of the positions are in the area of syntax , though we will hire in other areas too . these are all replacement positions , for faculty who are on leave , and there is no realistic prospect of any of them developing into permanent positions . some of the courses that need to be taught are undergraduate classes , while others are graduate classes . at least three , and possibly as many as five courses will involve syntax courses at various levels , ranging from introductory undergraduate syntactic analysis to advanced graduate seminars . our most pressing need in these areas is during the fall and winter quarters ( see below for an outline of quarter dates ) . in addition , we may need an instructor for two lower-division introductory courses in general linguistics in the winter and / or spring quarters ; one of these is a generic intro to linguistics ; the other is a course surveying the languages spoken in the usa , including immigrant languages , american indian languages , and dialects of english and spanish , covering phonetics , history , and sociolinguistic issues , among others . finally , we will have openings for advanced graduate courses in some of the subfields represented in our department - - such as phonology , phonetics , psycholinguistics , computational ling . , syntax , semantics , specific language areas ( such as african , american indian , etc . ) for these advanced graduate courses , we are primarily interested in hiring relatively senior people with established reputations ( e . g . people who are on leave and who are interested in visiting ucla ) , though more junior applicants will also be considered . because we have a large number of courses available for visitors to teach next year , we are quite flexible in terms of the type and level of appointments . in particular , we may be interested in hiring some people for single-course lectureships ( paying in the neighborhood of $ 7 , 000 to $ 10 , 000 per 10 - week course , depending on seniority ) ; we may also consider full-time appointments for periods of one or two terms , with a courseload of 2 courses per term , and pay levels per course roughly comparable to those mentioned above . finally , we may make appointments with less than full-time teaching loads ( e . g . teaching one course and co-teaching another ) . these visiting positions are not restricted as to rank . we are especially interested in hiring faculty from other universities who plan to be on leave during ( part of ) the coming academic year and who may be interested in visiting our department for part of the year and teaching a course ( or two ) while they are here . each course runs for ten weeks ( with two 2 - hour lectures per week ) followed by an exam week . applicants should send a letter of application , including a cv , a statement of previous teaching experience , as well as the names , addresses , and phone numbers of three recommenders to : tim stowell ( chair ) , department of linguistics , ucla , los angeles , ca 90095-1543 . ( actual letters of recommendation should not be sent at this time ; likewise candidates should not send voluminous dossiers of publications , etc . ) applications for fall quarter courses should be received by aug . 15 1997 , and applications for winter and spring quarter courses should be received by sept . 10 1997 , though late applications will also be considered as long as the positions remain unfilled . potential applicants are strongly encouraged to inform us by e-mail , as soon as possible , of their intention to apply for these positions . initial enquiries by email may be directed to tim stowell ( stowell @ ucla . edu ) or to anna meyer ( meyer @ humnet . ucla . edu ) . ucla is an equal opportunity employer . - - - - - - - - - - tim stowell chair , ucla department of linguistics 405 hilgard ave . los angeles , ca 90095-1543 usa phone : 1-310 - 825-0634 fax : 1-310 - 206-5743 e - mail : stowell @ ucla . edu
