Subject: australian national place names project - research fellow

macquarie university / australian academy of the humanities the aim of the national place names project is to construct a comprehensive database of an estimated 4 million australian place names , compiled on a linguistic , etymological and historical basis . this position is funded by a grant from the australian research council to the australian academy of the humanities . the appointee will develop the methodologies , the procedures and the regional structures that are necessary for the national place names project to succeed . as part of this process , the appointee will assist in organising a conference with international participation from place names experts , in order to develop methodological best practice for the project . applicants must have a doctoral degree , or be about to submit their dissertation , in a relevant field . they must have experience in lexicography , in historical linguistics or in other relevant research , sufficient to carry out the tasks of the project . preference will be given to applicants who have research experience in place names study , and who have a record of publications in this field . experience in liaising with government departments and in organising meetings and conferences would be an advantage . enquiries and further information package : mr david blair , on + 61 + 2 9850 8736 , fax + 61 + 2 9850 6900 ( e-mail : david . blair @ mq . edu . au ) . an application package must be obtained prior to sending your application . the position is available from 1 october 1997 , for a fixed term of two years . salary range : level b ( lecturer ) $ 42 , 042 to $ 51 , 113 per annum . applications , including full curriculum vitae , visa status , and the names and addresses of three referees should be forwarded to the recruitment manager , personnel office , macquarie university , nsw 2109 by 1 september 1997 . applications will not be acknowedged unless specifically requested .
