Subject: asllrp / signstream

the american sign language linguistic research project involves researchers from boston university , gallaudet university , and rutgers university working together on the syntax of asl . in addition , in collaboration with dartmouth college , we are developing a tool called signstream for the coding and analysis of video-based data . general information about this project is available at our web site : < http : / / www . bu . edu / asllrp / ; . a number of reports and doctoral dissertations are now available in portable document format ( pdf ) and can be downloaded from this site : bahan , b . ( 1996 ) non - manual realization of agreement in american sign language . doctoral dissertation , boston university , boston , ma . maclaughlin , d . ( 1997 ) the structure of determiner phrases : evidence from american sign language . doctoral dissertation , boston university , boston , ma . maclaughlin , d . , c . neidle , and r . g . lee ( 1996 ) design specifications for signstream , a multimedia database tool for language research . asllrp report no . 3 . neidle , c . , d . maclaughlin , b . bahan , r . g . lee , and j . kegl ( 1997 ) the signstream project . asllrp report no . 5 . neidle , c . , d . maclaughlin , j . kegl , and b . bahan ( 1996 ) non - manual correlates of syntactic agreement in american sign language . asllrp report no . 2 . * note that digitized movies demonstrating the grammatical examples are provided . neidle , c . , d . maclaughlin , and r . g . lee , eds . ( 1997 ) syntactic structure and discourse function : an examination of two constructions in american sign language . asllrp report no . 4 . [ contents : hoza , neidle , maclaughlin , kegl , and bahan , a unified syntactic account of rhetorical questions in american sign language ; and lee , neidle , maclaughlin , bahan , and kegl , role shift in asl : a syntactic look at direct speech . ] with respect to the signstream project < http : / / www . bu . edu / asllrp / signstream > , we would be especially interested to receive feedback as to features that potential users ( linguists working with video-based data ) might find useful , to assist us with ongoing design and development .
