Subject: position in speech & hearing sciences

position : professor ( full , associate , or assistant ) ph . d . program in speech and hearing sciences the graduate school and university center , located in midtown manhattan , is part of the city university of new york , the nation 's largest public urban university . over 4000 students are enrolled in 32 doctoral programs and 7 master 's programs . the ph . d . program in speech and hearing sciences , with approximately 75 students , is one of the most distinguished in the country . this position , beginning in september 1998 , is for a professor specializing in the neurophysiological aspects of language production and / or processing . the successful individual will be able to develop and sustain a research program , to teach , and to supervise dissertations in these areas . a history of external funding for research or the potential to obtain funding is desired . the candidate should have a strong background in linguistics or psycholinguistics and an interest in clinical populations . the individual must have a record of empirical and scholarly publications in one or more areas of the neurophysiology of language . qualifications : required : ph . d . or equivalent in the discipline from an accredited university , a substantial record of research and publications , excellence in teaching , and experience supervising doctoral students . review of applications will begin october 1 , 1997 . send a letter of application , curriculum vitae , sample publications , and three letters of reference to : professor richard g . schwartz ph . d . program in speech and hearing sciences cuny graduate school and university center 33 west 42 street new york , ny 10036 rschwart @ email . gc . cuny . edu the city university of new york is an eo / aa / ada / irca employer richard g . schwartz , ph . d . ph . d . program in speech and hearing sciences city university of new york graduate school and university center 33 west 42 street new york , ny 10036 usa rschwart @ email . gc . cuny . edu phone : ( 212 ) 642-2352 fax : ( 212 ) 642-2379
