Subject: job posting : korean lexicographer ( microsoft )

computational linguist for korean the nlp group in microsoft research is looking for a computational lexicographer for korean . the position will be located on the microsoft central campus in redmond , washington , usa . this is a great opportunity to work with a dedicated group of researchers who are creating a system for unrestricted text understanding and generation . responsibilities : the lexicographer 's primary responsibilities include developing and maintaining the morphological rules and data for the language , in accordance with the overall system architecture used by the microsoft research nlp group . qualifications : the lexicographer 's qualifications should include experience in linguistic research and online dictionary development , programming experience , keen interest in lexical issues , and an advanced degree in linguistics or a closely related discipline . native proficiency in korean is assumed . a practical orientation is highly desirable . significant programming experience or experience extracting lexical information from online dictionaries or corpora would be a plus . about the microsoft nlp research group : we are in the process of designing and building a system to analyze unrestricted natural language , taking input text , and moving from lexical / morphological analysis through syntax , semantics , and eventually pragmatics and discourse . a generation component is also planned . the programming system and underlying principles that are used for english have been found to be applicable to other languages . we are empirically oriented , and are happy to use good linguistic ideas wherever they can be found . a reasonable first-version summary of our techniques and some of our experience can be found in the book " natural language processing : the plnlp approach , " kluwer academic publishers , boston , 1993 . for more information about the nlp group , connect to our home page on the world wide web . http : / / www . research . microsoft . com / research / nlp contact : please send resumes , cover letters , and any additional materials to : steven clyne human resources microsoft corporation one microsoft way redmond , wa 98052 usa email : stevecl @ microsoft . com
