Subject: software developer for nlp project ( microsoft )

software developer for nlp project the nlp group in microsoft research is looking for a software developer . the position will be located on the microsoft central campus in redmond , washington , usa . this is a great opportunity to work with a dedicated group of researchers who are creating a system for unrestricted text understanding and generation . responsibilities : the nlp group has created an underlying architecture and tools based on our english system . we now have linguists working to extend the system to european and far east languages , and this requires significant changes to the underlying code base , and ( equally important ) to the tools that the linguists use . the developer 's primary responsibility will be to provide whatever changes or tools the linguists need in order to proceed with linguistic development . this includes ( but is not restricted to ) modifying the tools for creating grammar and morphology systems to handle aspects of non - english languages as they come up , enhancing the tools for lexicographic work across seven languages , and doing data and dictionary conversions . qualifications : the developer 's qualifications should include professional c + + programming experience and a strong background in nlp . experience with non - english languages , unicode issues , and microsoft tools are desirable . about the microsoft nlp research group : we are in the process of designing and building a system to analyze unrestricted natural language , taking input text , and moving from lexical / morphological analysis through syntax , semantics , and eventually pragmatics and discourse . a generation component is also planned . the programming system and underlying principles that are used for english have been found to be applicable to other languages . we are empirically oriented , and are happy to use good linguistic ideas wherever they can be found . a reasonable first-version summary of our techniques and some of our experience can be found in the book " natural language processing : the plnlp approach , " kluwer academic publishers , boston , 1993 . for more information about the nlp group , connect to our home page on the world wide web . http : / / www . research . microsoft . com / research / nlp contact : please send resumes , cover letters , and any additional materials to : steven clyne human resources microsoft corporation one microsoft way redmond , wa 98052 usa email : stevecl @ microsoft . com
