Subject: keeps america online online

this is not spam ; you are receiving this message because you are a member of a safemail list . if you do not wish to be a part of this listclick here - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - aol anti - timer keeps america online online ! this software works with all versions of aol and all versions of windows . you decide when to log off . take control of your service . unlimited free updates e-mailed directly to you when necessary . features : clicks the aol timer boxes automatically to keep you on-line indefinitely . you are now free to stay logged on to aol for as long as you want . you are not forced to stop what you are doing every time the silly box pops up . stop getting dumped in the middle of downloading files . works with aol minimized ( disable your screen saver ) . receive your e-mail instantly and hear " you ' ve got mail " . get the " unlimited service " you are paying for . free updates to aol anti - timer provided periodically via direct e-mail as necessary . personal e-mail support if you are having difficulties . same day delivery via e-mail with visa , mastercard or checks orders . works with windows 95 + 98 and all versions of aol . click status bar to monitor " always on aol " activity showing events and times . * please do not email your credit card information . keep reading for instructions on how to order . news flash : on september 16 , 1998 aol revised the aol timer making all existing anti - timers obsolete and ineffective . all existing " aol anti - timer " subscribers have already received , via direct e-mail and free of charge , the updated version of " aol anti - timer " which defeats the new aol timer . make sure the next aol anti - timer you purchase will clear the new aol timer and all future aol timers . " aol anti - timer " is the last anti-timer you will ever need to buy because once you purchase it you will receive unlimited free updates e-mailed directly to you when ever aol revises its timer or when necessary . take control of your service for only $ 30 . 00 dollars . for more information or to order please click here if have trouble logging on to our url please email us requesting information regarding aol anti-timer click here
